Standing at five feet 10 inches with skin the colour of midnight, Shanelle Nyasiase, is at the peak of her career. She was recently nominated by Business of Fashion, an online magazine for the global fashion industry, as one of the top 500 people influencing fashion. But life has not always been a smooth ride for this young South Sudanese model. Long before realising her dream career in modelling, Shanelle had heard about how difficult it was for young black women to make it as international models. But that did not stop her. Today she is among the top international supermodels appearing in shows for acclaimed fashion designers including Versace, Balenciaga, Valentino, and Gucci. Or being the face of British fashion house Alexander McQueen for the past two years. “Being nominated as one of the top 500 people in the Business of Fashion was such a surprise and an honour. Fashion has always been my passion but it’s also my business and to be recognised and included in such company was a dream come true,” the 23-year-old Shanelle told The EastAfrican. “This year has been good for me and my highlights include modelling for Marc Jacobs, the Miu Miu fashion show in Paris and Versace ready-to- wear collection showcased in Milan, Spain, and the Alexander McQueen Fall/Winter 2019/2020 in Paris Fashion Week. I was also in the Tommy Hilfiger fashion show in New York,” she added. Even with her busy schedule, which involves travelling to exotic destinations for photo shoots or fashion events, Shanelle always comes back home in Nairobi where she grew up—and feels at home. The model moved to Kenya from Sudan as a teenager to live with her uncle in Nairobi. She started modelling at the age of 17 years and she still remembers how light-skinned girls would get picked over her. Shanelle started modelling for Kenyan designer Adele Dejak and posting the pictures on social media. That is how she was discovered by Ingrid Tamborin and Daniele Tamagni. As a shy and timid girl, she found herself getting overwhelmed sometimes while preparing for a photo shoot or a fashion event. Since then she has been to different cities across the world on different runways and international fashion shows. “We still have a way to go but things are definitely changing for the better. In my first season I did 45 shows—the most for any model. I have been the face of Alexander McQueen for two years now and done multiple campaigns for the likes of Mui Mui, Chanel and Fenty by Rihanna,” Shanelle said. “If you look at the success of Adut and newcomers like Awach you see black girls are killing it. There are so many more black girls now. I did a show with Naomi Campbell recently and she was in tears thinking about how far we’ve come. It’s great for the girls who are enjoying the success, but it’s equally important for young girls aspiring to be models,” she said.   “I have learnt a lot. I was so naive when I started which is expected of course. Being a top fashion model looks glamorous but it’s hard work. It involves castings, fittings, endless travel and this can be lonely sometimes. I’ve learnt to be strong, professional and thankful for the incredible opportunities I’ve been given. I realise that I’m not just a fashion model, I’m also a role model,” said Shanelle. She admits that competition is high, and it is easy to get lost in the crowd. There are many models and very few spaces to fit everyone. But what she has come to learn is that a person has to stay focused to stand out. A typical day for her can start as early as 5am and end at midnight. Shanelle now wants to use her success to help others. At the moment she is sponsoring a number of young girls especially from South Sudan to pursue their education. She hopes to start a centre in the near future to rescue young teenagers where they can be nurtured and mentored. “I want to use my success to help others. I want to help young girls, especially the financially disadvantaged and the exploited. Many girls in South Sudan are forced into marriage at a young age. If they don’t want to get married there’s nowhere for them to turn. I’d like to open a centre where they can go,” she said. “My advice to young people thinking about taking up modelling as a career is to first think like business people. Don’t work for free. Don’t believe all the promises people make and don’t take shortcuts,” Shanelle said.   Episcopal Conference Archbishop urges contestants to work together to address the challenges. Currently, the UN allows exemptions if the supply or advice is to support the Somalia army.