South Sudan rivals strike security deal A team of mediators on Tuesday announced a breakthrough in security arrangements that are key to the formation of a transitional government in South Sudan in February next year. Peace envoys sent by Khartoum to follow up on progress in integrating rebel forces into the national army said President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar's teams had agreed on "the forces, their training, their camps and their redeployment" across South Sudan. Mohammed Al-Ta'ayshi, a member of the Sudan sovereign council, a military committee had been set up to follow up on the arrangements, the key thorny issue that has delayed the transition government since May. Sudan and Uganda are guarantors of the Entebbe Accord which on November 7 extended the formation of the transition government in Juba by 100 days from November 12. US officials discuss Libya political resolution with Haftar Senior US officials met with Libyan strongman Khalifa Haftar Monday to discuss steps toward ending his offensive on Tripoli, and accused Russia of exploiting the conflict. The State Department said the delegation aimed to establish "steps to achieve a suspension of hostilities and a political resolution to the Libyan conflict. It said the US would support "concrete efforts to address militias and extremist elements and the distribution of resources so they benefit all Libyans." The US also held discussions with Libya's unity government in Washington on November seeking an end to the war that has killed more than 1,000 people since April. The war has been overshadowed by a power play pitting the US, Russia, France, Italy, China, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. Morocco rapper gets one-year jail for insulting police A Moroccan court on Monday sentenced rapper Mohamed Mounir, known as Gnawi, to one year in jail for insulting police on social media. The court in Sale near the capital Rabat sentenced Gnawi to one year in jail and fined him 1,000 dirhams ($103) for "insulting a public servant", a reference to the police. His defence, however, believes the 31-year-old is being victimised over a song - "Aach al Chaab" - he co-wrote about hardships of young people in Morocco, unemployment and corruption. Gnawi, who was arrested November 1, said he had insulted the police in a video which he posted on his Instagram account because he had been "humiliated" by them. An Egyptian Coptic rights activist Ramy Kamel is facing charges of joining a terror group and spreading misinformationamid a renewed crackdown on dissidents in the country. His lawyer said Kamel was arrested on Saturday and would be kept in temporary custody at Tora prison in southeast Cairo for 15 days for further questioning He said the prosecution has alleged Kamel joined a "terror" group, received foreign funding and broadcast false information.   Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo’s family exported gold bars worth millions of dollars to Dubai. Local administrators and police commissioners are expected to implement the order.