Hong Kong, Hong Kong's voters turned out in record numbers Sunday for local council elections that the city's pro-democracy movement hopes will add pressure on the Beijing-backed government to heed their demands after months of violent protest. Lengthy queues snaked out of polling stations across the territory in the election for 18 district councils, where high turnout is expected to benefit democratic forces. The government said over a third of the record 4.13 million citizens registered to vote had cast their ballots within seven hours of polls opening, on track for a record and more than double the rate seen over the same timeframe during the last election in 2015. UNREST The selection of 452 councillors -- handling community-level concerns such as bus routes and garbage collection -- traditionally generates little excitement, but has taken on new significance following months of political unrest. Hong Kong has been buffeted by months of mass rallies and violent clashes pitting police against protesters who are agitating for direct popular elections of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory's government as well as a probe into alleged police brutality. District councils have long been dominated by the pro-Beijing establishment, and voters seeking change hope that weakening that grip will give their movement fresh momentum. "Even though one ballot can only help a little, I still hope it can bring change to society and support street protests in some way," 19-year-old student Michael Ng, voting for the first time, told AFP. DIRECT REPRESENTATION The vote is the closest Hong Kongers get to direct representation. The territory's top-level legislature is elected by a mix of popular vote and seats reserved for industry groups stacked with China loyalists, which ensures Beijing's control of the city of around 7.3 million. The pro-democracy camp is calling Sunday's vote a referendum on Chief Executive Carrie Lam and the pro-Beijing government, who have resisted the movement's demands. "We are voting to give our judgement on what has happened... we're also voting to make a choice for what is yet to come," said Jimmy Sham, a pro-democracy candidate and a prominent figure in the largely leaderless protest movement. But the polls are not entirely symbolic: some candidates for next year's legislative elections will be drawn from district councillors, and the bodies also will contribute 117 members to the 1,200-strong Beijing-controlled electoral college that chooses the chief executive. PEACE Protests have been muted in recent days after pro-democracy figures urged citizens to cease disruptions to avoid giving the government an excuse to delay or suspend the polls. Police were deployed at some polling stations and on city streets, but their presence was not particularly heavy. No violence or other disturbances were reported. "I'm pleased to say that... we should have a relatively peaceful and calm environment to conduct these elections successfully," Lam said after voting in her constituency on Hong Kong island. RALLIES The political unrest kicked into high gear with giant rallies in June against a bill backed by Lam that would allow extraditions to China's opaque justice system. The bill was eventually withdrawn amid public pressure, but the anger that it unleashed sparked wider calls for democracy. Analysts expect pro-democracy candidates to see gains in the district councils but still fall short of a majority of slots. Campaigning has been marred by acrimony, with one pro-democracy candidate having his ear bitten off in an attack, while 17 other candidates of all stripes have been arrested over protest-related activities. Election authorities banned leading democracy activist Joshua Wong from running in the district poll for backing Hong Kong "self-determination".   Activists in Sudan say the road ahead remains rocky. Tanzania is said to have asked for deferment of the Nov 30 Summit.