The Gambia takes Myanmar to court over Rohingya genocide The Gambia, has filed a lawsuit at the UN International Court of Justice formally accusing Myanmar of genocide against Rohingya Muslims. The suit at the top court which normally rules on disputes between states follows an August 2018 UN report into the violence in Myanmar which recommended military leaders should go on trial for genocide. Myanmar's government rejected the report saying the operations in 2017 targeted insurgent threats despite thousands of Rohingya being killed and more than 700,000 fled to neighbouring Bangladesh. The trial could be peppered by religious undertones as The Gambia is majority Muslim country and Myanmar, a majority Budhist one. Mauritius PM Jugnauth's coalition wins legislative polls Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth,57 and his Morisian Alliance won thecountry's legislative elections held on November 7 with 42 of the 70 seats, final results showed. The National Electoral Commission said voter turn out was higher than in 2014 with roughly three quarters of the one million registered voters casting their ballots. The National Alliance, led by two-time prime minister Navin Ramgoolam got 17 seats and the Mauritian Militant Movement nine seats. Guinea Bissau's National Electoral Commission (CNE) said it had received ballot papers and other polling materials for the November 24 election from Portugal over the weekend. CNE head José Pedro Sambú said the logistics of the election were now "guaranteed" despite a standoff between President Jose Maria Vaz and the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas) over the country's political crisis. Two parallel governments are in charge in the country of two million people, one under Prime Minister Faustino Imbali backed by President Vaz and the other under Aristides Gomes which was elected in March and is recognised by Ecowas. Nigerian televangelist TB Joshua is on Tuesday expected to lead prayers for peace in Juba in a mission backed by President Salva Kiir. Presidential spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny said the cleric would hold prayers "for the leaders" at Juba One, the presidential palace. Temitope Balogun (TB) Joshua allegedly foretold the failed coup before the conflict erupted in 2013 for which President Kiir offered him an advisory role in his government. The International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda has urged the government and the opposition in Guinea to resume talks following protests and deadly clashes. Ms Bensouda warned that people who commit or incite violence would be liable to face trial for crimes on humanity in Guinea or The Hague, the ICC headquarters. The ICC is already investigating the 2009 massacre of more than 150 opposition supporters in a stadium in the capital Conakry. The opposition says at least 16 civilians have been killed since last month during demonstrations fuelled by suspicion that President Alpha Condé intends to amend the constitution to run for office again. Cameroon’s two houses of parliament - the National Assembly and the Senate - resume business on Tuesday after four months of recess for the third ordinary and last session of the 2019. The session is dedicated to scrutiny and adoption of the state budget for 2020 and comes after the Major National Dialogue that was aimed at resolving the conflict in the English speaking Northwest and Southwest. Some of the recommendations of that dialogue, especially those requiring more resources for Anglophone Cameroon will be tabled in parliament for vetting. The parliament has served for six after President Paul Biya extended it twice because of tensions in the country but the elections are now set for February 9, 2020.   President Joao Lourenco left Angola as the country marked its 44th Independence Day The carrier is banking on the route to help boost trade and tourism.