Provisional results of Kenya's census held on August 24 show the country's population grew to 47.6 million people, nearly a tenth of them living in the capital Nairobi. It was almost split in the middle between men and women at 23.6 million and 24 million, respectively with Nairobi home to 4.4 million people. The new numbers reflect an increase of nine million people or 23.3 per cent from the 38.6 million reported in the controversial 2009 census. A Norway-based shipping company says that nine of its employees have been abducted from one of its vessels while it was moored off the coast of Benin in West Africa. Shipping firm J.J. Ugland said the cargo ship, the Bonita, carrying gypsum was attacked on Saturday by pirates 15km (9 miles) off the coast. While piracy has decreased world wide, West Africa’s Gulf of Guinea remains notorious for abductions by armed groups who usually demand ransoms for the safe return of victims. A major ally in the Sudan transitional government has denied allegations by the International Criminal Court that it is against handing over former president Omar al-Bashir to be tried for genocide. The Forces of Freedom and Change said it had no objection to handing over Bashir to ICC which indicted him for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity during the Darfur conflict. ICC prosecutors demanded he be handed over after he was deposed on April 11 but the transitional authorities would need to ratify the ICC's Rome Statute to allow for the transfer. Four people including the deputy mayor of Djibo,a northern Burkina Faso city, were killed in an ambush on Sunday in an area plagued by recurrent jihadist attacks Administrative sources said the deputy mayor of Djibo and three companions were killed in an attack by unidentified armed assailants as the country battles a four-year jihadist revolt. The attacks - typically hit-and-run raids on villages, road mines and suicide bombings - have claimed more than 630 lives since the wave of jihadist violence crossed over from Mali. West African leaders on Sunday reiterated their backing for Guinea-Bissau's Aristide Gomes, sacked as prime minister by the country's interim president three weeks ahead of a presidential election. A delegation of the 15-nation Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) denounced as illegal President Jose Mario Vaz's sacking last week of Gomes and his internationally backed government. Vaz had no authority to dismiss the administration or appoint a replacement government because his five-year mandate as president had expired in June when ECOWAS agreed he stays on until the November 24, 2019 elections. Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Sunday said he would prioritise dialogue over force in tackling recent unrest that has left 86 people dead. The protests erupted in Addis Ababa and in Ethiopia's Oromia region on October 23 after Jawar Mohammed, an activist alleged security forces planned to attack him. "The Ethiopian government has opted for dialogue and education instead of using force," Abiy, the 2019 Nobel Peace laureate, said warning patience should not be mistaken for weakness.   Rwanda President Kagame drops seasoned diplomat Richard Sezibera. Addis stands to save big on their $3.4b imports of oil products from the Middle East.