Namibians voted in presidential and legislative polls on Wednesday with the opposition only hoping to put a dent on the ruling South-West African People's Party (Swapo) dominance in the national assembly. Swapo domination of Namibia politics since independence from South Africa in 1990 is reflected in Parliament where it has held more than two-thirds of the seats since 1994. Swapo and its candidate, President Hage Geingob, are expected to easily see off a challenge from 15 political parties and 11 presidential candidates given the 80 percent landslide win in 2014. Three geopolitical groups are in Cameroon for talks with President Paul Biya's government over a deepening crisis that has seen the opposition boycott legislative polls set for February 9, 2020. The Africa Union, the Commonwealth and La Francophonie top officials started the two-day mission on Wednesday at the invitation of President Biya according to state owned media. AU's Moussa Faki Mahamat and La Francophonie Secretary general Louise Mushikiwabo are seeking a lasting solution to the conflict in the western part of the country that has left 3000 dead in two years. Cameroon opposition leader, Maurice Kamto, has said his Cameroon Renaissance Movement (MRC) party will not participate in the legislative and municipal elections until the crisis is resolved. The opposition is also demanding political reforms to level the playing field which it says has been slanted in favour of President Biya who was ruled the country since 1982. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has asked close ally Egypt to respect freedom of the press in the wake of a crackdown that followed protests in September. Pompeo said the US continued "to raise the fundamental importance of respect for human rights, universal freedoms and the need for a robust civil society," in its strategic importance with Egypt. He called for release of Mada Masr journalists arrested over the weekend as David Schenker, the US Middle East envoy, warned that a new NGO laws should not restrict civil society and Egypt's economic growth. Sudan has scrapped the controversial Public Order Law that severely curtailed women's rights, leading to flogging, fining and jailing of thousands of women during Bashir's rule under the archaic public order law. The country's official news agency SUNA said the the council of ministers agreed in an extraordinary meeting today to cancel the Sharia law leaning order in all provinces. The strict moral code imposed by deposed President Omar al-Bashir subjected women to punishment if they took alcohol, wore trousers or attended private parties. The ruling transition council, which has vowed to respect human rights, is expected to ratify the council of ministers' decision.   Angela Ndungwa Munguti becomes the 43rd Kenyan runner suspended for doping this year. US and UK embassies say poll officials "overwhelmingly" disqualified opposition candidates.