A woman has been placed under isolation n treatment for Ebola like symptoms at a hospital in western Kenya. A statement from the county government that runs the hospital said results of blood samples were expected in a day to confirm if indeed it is an Ebola case. Ebola has killed more than 1,400 people in DR Congo since last year and two in Kenya's western neighbour Uganda in the past week. Eritrea’s Roman Catholic Church has condemned the government for shutting down its 22 health clinics. In a letter to the ministry of health, the church said patients were ordered to go home by security forces and soldiers positioned at the centres. The government is yet to comment on the seizure which would leave thousands of people, mostly mothers and their children in rural areas, without access to quality health care. Fallen Sudanese leader Omar al-Bashir is to be charged with possessing foreign currency, corruption and receiving gifts illegally. Prosecutor Alaeddin Dafallah said Bashir had been informed of the charges which related to institutionalised graft during his reign that saw Sudan rank 172 out of 180 countries in the Transparency International 2018 Corruption Perceptions Index. In April, military council chief General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan said more than $113 million worth of cash in three currencies had been seized from Bashir's residence after he was toppled. Algeria's former finance minister Karim Djoudi who directed the country's purses between 2007 and 2014 has been released as investigations over the disappearance of public funds continue. The supreme court said Djoudi and Former transport minister Amar Tou was also released by the investigating magistrate. Ten other officials of the Abdelaziz Bouteflika era are investigated over crimes while two former prime ministers Ahmed Ouyahia and Abdelmalek Sellal are in detention. Protesters torched a church overnight in the southern Niger city of Maradi after the arrest of a prominent imam who was subsequently freed Sunday, religious and security sources told AFP. Sheikh Rayadoune, the imam of the Zaria mosque in Maradi, was detained Saturday after criticising a proposed law on religious worship as "anti-Islam" a day earlier. He has appealed to his supporters to end the unrest. The head of Libya's internationally recognised Government of National Accord Fayez al-Sarraj announced Sunday a simultaneous presidential and legislative elections before the end of 2019. He proposed a forum that would be attended by "influential national forces on the political and social scene, and supporters of a peaceful and democratic solution" to get Libya out of the political crisis. Sarraj's GNA holds Tripoli, but strongman Khalifa Haftar's self-styled Libyan National Army holds the east and much of the south of the country. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has vowed that the United States will guarantee free passage through the vital Strait of Hormuz after two tankers were attacked there last week. The US blames Iran for the attacks in the Strait of Hormuz - a channel that links the Gulf with the Gulf of Oman - through which a third of the world's seaborne oil supply passes. The tankers attacked last week arrived on safe waters off the United Arab Emirates coast on Sunday.   More than fifteen border crossings between DR Congo, South Sudan, and Uganda have no Ebola The coalition of military and Islamist redefined Sudan Identity.