Kigali Serena Hotel's Milima Restaurant offers both a table d’hôte menu and a wide range of à la carte options. To break the monotony of its culinary offering, the restaurant hosted a two-day fiesta with renowned visiting Australian steak master chef Chris Wade, for a four-course meal with Australian influence. Chef Wade is the executive chef at Steak Bar and Grill in Melbourne, Australia, and is on a mission to showcase superior Australian meats and native products through a series of master classes and exclusive dinners across Africa. The first course was cured salmon and lemon myrtle king prawns served with mango and cucumber, soy jelly and freeze dried spicy Kimchi. The lean cut of salmon was mildly-salty and meshed well with the mango pulp and cucumber. The lemon myrtle king prawns were quite crunchy and a little naked that I couldn’t place the lemon myrtle spice. The soy jelly was a little tangy for my liking. The second course was grilled chicken breast, sweet corn and wattle seed crispy leg, smoked garlic mayo, puffed wild rice and blackened spring onion oil. The smoked garlic mayo complimented the grilled chicken breast which was a bit chewy. The sweet corn with puffed rice was delicious and made up for the wattle seed crispy leg which had a lard after-taste. The third course was a spiced beef porterhouse, truffled carrot puree, herb mash potato, textures of beetroot and Australian Mountain pepper jus. The spiced beef porterhouse which was done medium to rare was divine, particularly pairing well with the Australian Mountain pepper jus. The herb mash potato was a little tangy with the herbs. The steak was complimented heavily with the truffled carrot puree and the textures of beetroot. The dessert was a salted caramel pillow, Australian Anzac biscuit garnished with passion fruit gel and freeze dried lychee. This was the icing on the cake, quite literally. It had a full bodied flavour and was easily the best way to end the meal.   Botswana’s new leader seems to be undoing some of his predecessor’s signature policies. Minister says the surplus is only temporary and should not cause alarm.