1. Tanzania to send back Burundi refugees 2. Passenger jailed for bomb joke on Kenyan plane 3. UNHCR says at least 40 feared dead or missing in shipwreck off Libya 4. Britain urges Zambia to fight corruption to unlock aid 5. Lorries stranded in Mali amid protests over poor roads 6. Tunisia's pharmaceutical industry records 11 per cent growth 7. Angola runs first mining roadshow 8. Namibian central bank says economy to shrink by 1.7 per cent 1. Tanzania to send back Burundi refugees Tanzania on Tuesday announced it would send back all Burundian refugees on its soil from October 1, saying it was working with the UN to secure their return. But the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) issued a statement that insisted any returnees should go home voluntarily. According to Tanzanian government figures, around 200,000 Burundians have fled to Tanzania. Many arrived after a political crisis erupted in Burundi in 2015. 2. Passenger jailed for bomb joke on Kenyan plane An Ethiopian man in Kenya was sentenced to four months in prison for joking about a bomb after boarding a Kenya Airways flight. Chifraye Bekele’s joke led to the cancellation of the Johannesburg-bound flight and to a three-hour shutdown of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in the capital, Nairobi. Magistrate Christine Njagi found him guilty of “imperilling the safety of aircraft and persons on board”. 3. UNHCR says at least 40 feared dead or missing in shipwreck off Libya About 40 people are feared dead or missing after the latest wreck of a boat carrying migrants bound for Europe off the coast of Libya, while about 60 migrants have been rescued and returned to shore. Unseaworthy vessels overloaded with migrants trying to reach Italy regularly capsize off Libya. Last week more than 100 people died, and a boat with about 250 capsized last month. 4. Britain urges Zambia to fight corruption to unlock aid Zambia should show that it is taking measures to fight corruption to unlock donor aid and investments that have been withheld due to graft concerns. Britain, Finland, Ireland and Sweden withheld nearly $34 million in aid to Zambia’s social welfare and education sectors in September last year because of concern over financial mismanagement. 5. Lorries stranded in Mali amid protests over poor roads Hundreds of lorries and other vehicles have been blocked from entering Mali’s capital on the fourth day of a protest over the poor state of the country’s roads. Protesters want urgent improvements to the dilapidated roads and railways. 6. Tunisia's pharmaceutical industry records 11 per cent growth The Tunisian pharmaceutical industry has recorded a spectacular annual growth of 11 per cent in the last two decades, interim Health Minister Sonia Ben Chiekh has said. Investments in this industry during the last three years have hit 300 million dinars (roughly $105 million). The minister emphasised the need for the involvement of all stakeholders in the pharmaceutical industry in order to overcome all the problems hindering the sector’s development. 7. Angola runs first mining roadshow Angola started on Tuesday running its first roadshow for the acquisition of rights for prospection and exploitation of diamond, iron and phosphate in the country. Countries including Brazil and South Africa are taking part in the maiden event in Luanda. The roadshow will run from August 27 to September 20 in Luanda, Dubai, Beijing and London, with an aim to entice investors. 8. Namibian central bank says economy to shrink by 1.7 per cent The Namibian economy will shrink further by 1.7 per cent amid an ongoing depression. In its economic outlook report, the central bank said the economy is expected to fall into a deeper contraction during 2019, before returning to positive growth in 2020. The central bank said risks to the domestic economic outlook remain, including the persistently low uranium price, which hurts uranium production in the country, and unpredictable rainfall, which may continue to negatively affect the agriculture sector beyond 2019.   A clinical psychologist believes that khat is a gateway drug to harder substances. They fled political unrest in 2015 amid protests over Nkurunziza's third term bid.