Kenya extends census duration in populous areas Top Rwandan businessman gunned down in Mozambique Harvard student sues President Museveni for blocking him on Twitter Zimbabwe state doctors threaten strike Zimbabwe bails senior opposition official arrested over protest World shows concerns over humanitarian situation caused by rains, floods in Sudan African countries, institutions urged to promote climate-resilient economies ahead of continental conference Thousands flee three-week lockdown in Cameroon Zimbabwe 'mulls pulling out of Cites' 1.     Kenya extends census duration in populous areas The Kenyan government has extended working hours for census personnel across the country in order to speed up the process, amid concerns that many households were yet to be reached. An inter-ministerial committee led by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho on Monday extended the enumeration time in populous urban centres from 6am to 10pm. Initially, the headcount was to begin at 6am and end at 6pm countrywide. 2. Top Rwandan businessman gunned down in Mozambique The leader of the Rwandan community in Mozambique has been shot dead in the capital, Maputo. Officials say Louis Baziga was in his car at midday on Monday after leaving his home in Matola, a southern suburb of the city, when he was targeted by gunmen who intercepted his car. Mr Baziga was a known supporter of the Rwandan government of President Paul Kagame and was a successful businessman running shops and a pharmacy in Maputo. 3.     Harvard student sues President Museveni for blocking him on Twitter A Harvard University student has sued Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni for blocking him on Twitter. Mr Hillary Innocent Seguya Taylor also sued spokesperson Ofwono Opondo and the police Chief Political Commissar Asan Kasingye, saying they too have blocked him from accessing their official Twitter handles. He argues that the President and the two officials use their Twitter handles as public forums to disseminate information about activities of their public offices in their official capacities and to get feedback from citizens. 4.     Zimbabwe state doctors threaten strike Zimbabwe's teachers and doctors, who make up the bulk of public service, on Monday rejected the government's wage offer, with medical personnel threatening a strike if their demand to have their salaries benchmarked in the US dollar is not met. The government on Friday proposed a 60 per cent pay increase for the doctors, while offering a 76 per cent raise for the rest of the civil service, in a bid to avert crippling strikes by state workers. Mid this year, Zimbabwe returned to using local currency with the government stopping the use of the US dollar. Inflation has also risen sharply. 5.     Zimbabwe bails senior opposition official arrested over protest A Zimbabwean court freed a senior opposition official on bail on Monday, after charging him with failing to stop an anti-government protest that authorities had banned. Amos Chibaya was released on bail of 400 Zimbabwe dollars (about $39) on condition that he does not interfere with witnesses. 6.     World shows concerns over humanitarian situation caused by rains, floods in Sudan The US Embassy in Khartoum on Monday announced allocation of more than $2 million for the emergencies in Sudan, while Kuwait and Qatar announced provision of humanitarian assistance for those affected by heavy rains and floods in the country. The flood response includes shelter, non-food items, drugs and medical supplies, water, sanitation and hygiene, and protection, in addition to support in the areas of logistics and transport. 7.     African countries, institutions urged to promote climate-resilient economies ahead of continental conference African countries and pan African institutions have been urged to exert concerted climate action efforts towards building climate-resilient economies across the continent. The call was made by the African Union (AU) on Monday as the African continent was scheduled to host a high-level climate-themed conference in Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa this week. The conference is co-organised by the AU Commission, the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), African Development Bank (AfDB), and the Pan African Climate Justice Alliance. 8.     Thousands flee three-week lockdown in Cameroon Thousands of residents of Cameroon's two English-speaking regions have fled their homes ahead of a three-week curfew announced by separatist fighters. According to media reports, there was a lot of commotion at a bus station, where people were trying to board overcrowded vehicle as they attempted to leave so as not to be caught up in the curfew. English-speaking Cameroonians say they are marginalised by the French-speaking majority. 9.     Zimbabwe 'mulls pulling out of Cites' Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa says the country is considering pulling out of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered species (Cites) to better guard its wildlife. Mr. Mnangagwa proposed that ivory in their region be traded. He was quoted as saying that Zimbabwe had too many elephants, having more than 84,000 jumbos but with the capacity to cope with around 56,000.   Such a move will criminalise humanitarian aid in Somalia, groups say. Lobby says human rights in Zimbabwe are increasingly being restricted and criminalised.