Kenya has joined the league of Africa oil exporters after its first consignment of 200,000 barrels fetched $12 million on Thursday afternoon. That means the sweet light crude sold at $60 per barrel, an uptick of nearly 40 per cent above the $43 per barrel that the government had set as the break-even point for the Early Oil Pilot Scheme Preident Uhuru Kenyatta announced the breakthrough on twitter with a concise message: "We are now an oil exporter." Zimbabwe's Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube said Thursday that an equity law blamed for scaring off foreign investors would be abolished as the country seeks to woo fresh capital to shore up its moribund economy. Presenting the mid-term 2019 budget to parliament, Ncube said Indigenisation Act which requires foreign companies to give shareholdings of up to 51 percent in joint ventures to local partners would be repealed. When the law was originally passed in 2008, the government argued it would empower the majority black population but it only ended up benefitting those in positions of influence. Mauritania, roiled by a history of military coups and upheaval, saw its first transfer of power between elected leaders on Thursday as President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz handed over to his successor. Mohamed Ould Cheikh El Ghazouani was sworn in at a conference centre near the capital Nouakchott before a crowd of 5,000 people more than five weeks since he won elections on June 22. Describing himself as the "president of all," Ghazouani, 62, vowed to "carry out my duties with full impartiality and with respect for the law and the constitution. Somalia's President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed Farmajo has renounced his American citizenship in what analysts said was a signal of nationalism he hopes will see him through elections in 2021. Somalia law allows dual citizenship and Farmajo's ditching of his adopted also led to speculation that dual citizenship could be reviewed especially for aspiring political leaders. Farmajo faces immense odds to retain the seat he won in February 2017 and has stirred the region with his push at the International Court of Justice to have Kenya hand over a disputed sea territory to Mogadishu. The mayor of Somalia's capital Mogadishu has died of wounds sustained in a militant bombing attack on his office last month, the government said on Thursday. Mayor Abdirahman Omar Osman died while doctors were treating his wounds at a hospital in Doha, Qatar, a spokesman for the Somali president's office said. Six people were killed and Osman was seriously wounded in the July 24 attack on a government building claimed by Al-Shabaab jihadists to have been targeting a UN envoy. Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi and Renamo opposition leader Ossufo Momade on Thursday signed a landmark agreement aimed at formally ending decades of military hostilities. This is the second peace deal the parties are signing after the one in 1992 which was repudiated by Renamo in 2013 after the military raided its bush camp in central Sathundjira. A final and main agreement will be signed in Maputo on Tuesday but Renamo factions opposed to Momade's leadership and the cessation of hostilities could remain troublesome. Malawi's paramount court has ruled in favour of a ban on plastic, upholding a 2015 government bar on producing, distributing and importing thin single-use plastics typically used in packaging and wrapping. In a judgement on Wednesday a seven-judge panel of the Supreme Court of Appeal threw out a challenge by plastic manufacturers to stop a ban introduced four years ago. The court ruled this week that plastics measuring less than 60 microns (60 millionths of a metre) were an environmental hazard as they take a long time to decompose despite their thinness. A rare tea produced by Assam Company India Limited has sold for a world record price at auction in India, highlighting a boom for speciality teas while the industry as a whole is in crisis. A two kilogram (4.4 pound) lot of Maijan Orthodox Golden tea sold for 141,002 rupees ($2,035) on Wednesday to a Belgian trader. The price shattered the 50,000 rupees a kilo paid for some Manohari Golden tea on Tuesday but higher prices are believed to have been paid in private sales.   Fears agreement may fail like three previous demobilisation attempts Erick Kabendera now being charged sedition for an article published in 'The Economist'.