Chinese donation to Kenya goes missing Kenya has started an investigation into the circumstances under which a container with tagged goods donated by China to Parliament arrived empty. The donation of computers and projectors and other assorted items was part of a pledge by Mr Cao Jianming, the Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress (NPC) of China during his visit to Kenya in March. Mr Michael Sialai, the Clerk of the Kenya National Assembly said on Thursday the container tagged ‘diplomatic goods’ had nothing inside when it was opened despite open of tagged diplomatic goods not subject to opening even by customs. The European Union has warned Sudanese Transition Military Council that it may cease engagements until civilians “exercise demonstrable authority” in running the country's affairs.The renewed pressure comes after government agents killed six people including four students during demonstrations and as an Arab countries alliance backed by the United States treats the TMC with kid gloves. The obstinate regime has stalled talks with Forces for Freedom and Change over transfer of power to civilians, delays which "risk upsetting the achievements reached so far and could fuel further violence,” the EU said. The International Monetary Fund has approved disbursement of another $76.2 million under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF) for Cameroon. The money was approved after a review of the facility on July 17 and is expected to plug Cameroon's trade and fiscal deficits while supporting private sector growth. On Wednesday, the United Nations Development Program and Japan gave $300,000 to Civil Society Organisations for peace building and social cohesion in conflict hit anglophone Cameroon. Detained leaders of the Anglophone separatist movement have begun an indefinite hunger strike over the whereabouts of 200 of their members after separate riots in two prisons last week. Mozambique's President Filipe Nyusi has said he will sign a peace deal on Thursday with Renamo leader Ossufo Momade aimed at ending hostilities with the former rebel movement-turned-opposition party. President Nyusi told parliament on Wednesday the formal signing will take place at Renamo's military base in the Gorongosa mountains in the central region. Renamo started disarming its members in Tuesday in preparation for the peace deal which would allow President Nyusi to focus on a jihadist movement in the north of the country that has killed more than 250 people in two years An Ebola epidemic in eastern DR Congo appeared to widen on Wednesday with one death, another confirmed case and the quarantining of 15 people in a previously unaffected province. A total of 1,803 lives have been lost in the second worst outbreak of Ebola on record, according to figures released Wednesday.The death and diagnosis in Goma, the capital of North Kivu province, has raised concerns the disease could spread to East Africa which is linked through an air and water ports. Hundreds of demonstrators clashed with police in Liberia's capital Monrovia on Wednesday during a march against corruption and economic mismanagement under President George Weah. Police fired tear gas to stop the demonstrators from approaching the parliament building in Monrovia while protesters threw stones and bottles at officers. Protesters in the second major rally since thousands gathered on June 7 called on the government to improve living conditions amid spiralling inflation. Government critic Adama Gaye was charged on Wednesday with "offending the head of state" in a series of Facebook posts targeting President Macky Sall's privacy, his lawyer said. The former journalist will be held in the capital Dakar's Rebeuss prison over "manoeuvres and acts that might compromise public security", his lawyer Cheikh Khouraissy Ba said. Gaye has written numerous articles accusing the government of mismanagement, particularly in the oil and gas sector in which the president's brother, Aliou, has been implicated in scandals. Political intolerance appears to be returning to Burundi less than a year to elections after the country's main opposition party CNL said 10 of its offices have been torched or defaced since June. Therence Manirambona, the spokesperson for the National Congress for Freedom (CNL), said the actions were part of President Pierre Nkurunziza's efforts to undermine democracy ahead of 2020 presidential elections. On Tuesday, the party's office in Gatete in western Rumonge district was vandalised in what rights groups say are abuses targeting the opposition but which the government has dismissed as lies. Facebook says its researchers have managed to translate brain signals into spoken words, bringing the social network's vision of linking brains and machines closer to reality. A study published this week by University of California-San Francisco scientists in Nature Communications showed progress toward a new type of brain-computer interface. The project involving brain implants could be a step toward accomplishing the goal with a non-invasive method such as augmented reality glasses with sensors. Such a breakthrough could benefit people with paralysis, spinal cord injuries, neurodegenerative diseases or other conditions that impair speech and may enable people control technology just by thinking, Facebook said.   Court convicts Dr Stella Nyanzi of insulting President Yoweri Museveni. This month marks 400 years since the first recorded African slaves arrived in North America.