The university was reacting to a report by the higher education regulator, published by media outlets, that revealed that graduates who had been conferred with 118 PhD degrees risked having them recalled. The Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) in Kenya on Wednesday poked holes into a Commission for University Education (CUE) report that revealed massive anomalies both in its learning and graduation in its doctorate degrees awarded on June 21, 2019. 'DUE PROCESS' The university maintained that both the learning and award of degrees followed due process. The university was reacting to a report by the higher education regulator, published by media outlets, that revealed that graduates who had been conferred with 118 PhD degrees risked having them recalled. “All degrees of the university are meritoriously earned and no student is allowed to graduate without going through the due process regarding coursework, seminars, original research, external examination and publications,” JKUAT Vice-Principal Victoria Wambui told reporters at the university’s main campus in Juja yesterday She further dismissed claims that some of their doctorate degrees have been suspended by CUE “The University has taken note, with great concern, some of the biased and unfounded misinformation to the public on certain media platforms without giving proper context to the report submitted by CUE to the Ministry. None of our awarded doctorate degrees have been suspended,” she added Meanwhile, the university said it has set up a sub-committee of its senate to study the regulator’s report and implement various recommendations it has made. “Upon concluding their work, they will table their recommendation to the senate for consideration and implementation. A senate report will then be forwarded to the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Education and CEO CUE within three months as per the recommendations.”   Court convicts Dr Stella Nyanzi of insulting President Yoweri Museveni. This month marks 400 years since the first recorded African slaves arrived in North America.