1.       At least 10 dead after fuel truck collision in western Uganda 2.      Tanzania journalist Erick Kabendera's case set for august 30 3.       Sudan's opposition alliance submits list of candidates for joint sovereign council 4.       Kenya's 'King of Kikuyu music' dies in car crash 5.       DR Congo measles outbreak 'kills 2,700 children' 6.       UN agency urges African countries to unite during Climate Action Summit 7.       Nigeria awards crude-for-product swap deals to 15 firms 1.      At least 10 dead after fuel truck collision in western Uganda At least 10 people were killed when a fuel truck exploded in flames after losing control and ramming into three cars in western Uganda on Sunday. Nine burnt bodies were retrieved from the scene and transported to Lugazi Health Centre for further post-mortem analysis and DNA profiling while another body was still trapped under the truck. 2.      Tanzania journalist Erick Kabendera's case set for august 30 A Tanzanian court on monday set the hearing of an economic crime against journalist Erick Kabendera for August 30, 2019. Kabendera was charged on August with money laundering, tax evasion and leading organised crime. 3.      Sudan's opposition alliance submits list of candidates for joint sovereign council Sudan's opposition Freedom and Change Alliance submitted an internally agreed-upon list of five candidates for the joint sovereign council. The Transitional Military Council (TMC) is also said to have selected its five candidates. The sovereign council should comprise five civilians, five military representatives and one civilian to be selected through mutual consultation. Consultations are continuing between the opposition alliance and the TMC over the selection of the 11th member. 4.      Kenya's 'King of Kikuyu music' dies in car crash Popular Kenyan musician John Ng'ang'a, known by his stage name John De'Mathew and the King of Kikuyu music, has been killed in a car crash prompting an outpouring of tributes from his fans. The singer was on his way back from an event in the town of Thika, 45km north-east of the capital Nairobi, when his car ploughed into a lorry. His style of music was known as Benga, with guitar setting a fast-paced rhyme. 5.      DR Congo measles outbreak 'kills 2,700 children' The measles outbreak in Congo, seen to be the biggest in more than 10 years, has “killed 2,700 children”. Karel Janssen, Doctors Without Borders head of mission in DR Congo, said 23 out of 26 provinces had been affected, adding that lack of routine vaccination, poor hygiene, the prevalence of conflict and the high numbers of displaced people have contributed to the spread of the disease. 6.      UN agency urges African countries to unite during Climate Action Summit The UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) asked African countries to voice their united position during the Climate Action Summit to be convened next month by the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. The conference will examine Africa's Nationally Determined Contributions and define additional actionable climate interventions to alleviate the impacts of climate change. 7.      Nigeria awards crude-for-product swap deals to 15 firms Nigerian state oil company Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said that 15 companies had won the right to swap the nation’s crude oil for fuels following a tender for the deals. About 132 companies bid for the deals.   He was forced from power on April 11, after months of protest against his regime. He has been charged with money laundering, tax evasion and leading organised crime.