China and Ethiopia have ordered domestic airlines to suspend commercial operation of the Boeing 737 Max 8 following the Sunday crash. China is an important market for the US aircraft company, accounting for about one-fifth of worldwide deliveries of Boeing 737 Max models. Operation of the model will only resume after "confirming the relevant measures to effectively ensure flight safety." China and Ethiopia have ordered domestic airlines to suspend commercial operation of the Boeing 737 Max 8 following the Sunday crash that claimed 157 lives. Ethiopian Airlines grounded all its Boeing 737 Max 8 fleet on Sunday, hours after the air disaster near the capital Addis Ababa. A statement from the Airline said they were grounding the planes as it probes the cause of the crash. “Following the tragic accident of ET 302/10 March B-737- 8 Max (ET-AVJ), Ethiopian Airlines has decided to ground all B-737-8 Max fleet effectively March 10, 2019 until further notice,” the statement said. The Airline said although the cause of the crash was not yet known, the move was a safety measure. China on Monday followed suit, citing the Ethiopian Airlines crash and another deadly accident of that same model in Indonesia. Noting the "similarities" between the two accidents, China's Civil Aviation Administration said domestic airlines had until 6pm local time (1000 GMT) to ground all 737 Max 8 aircraft. Operation of the model will only resume after "confirming the relevant measures to effectively ensure flight safety", the administration said in a statement. The aviation authority will contact the US Federal Aviation Administration and Boeing, it said. The statement cited the Kenya-bound Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed minutes after take-off from Addis Ababa on Sunday, killing all 157 people on board, including eight from China. It also mentioned the Indonesia Lion Air flight, which crashed after take-off from Jakarta in October, killing all 189 people on board. China is an important market for the US aircraft company, accounting for about one-fifth of worldwide deliveries of Boeing 737 Max models. The company has delivered 76 Boeing 737 Max aircraft to Chinese airlines, which have ordered another 104, according to data from the aircraft maker's website updated through January. Boeing and joint venture partner Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China (COMAC) operate a plant in the eastern city of Zhoushan that completes the interiors of 737 Max planes for Chinese airlines. The factory delivered its first Max 8 plane to Air China in December. The planes are assembled in Renton, Washington state, and taken to Zhoushan to finish the interior work, according to Boeing.   Scores killed in Ethiopian Airlines plane accident Pierre Bemba's lawyers say 7 planes and three villas "simply allowed to rot" while he was behind Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of ET302 found.