Authors-cum photographers Carol Beckwith and Angela Fisher, who recently launched their latest book African Twilight: Vanishing Rituals and Ceremonies, at a colourful ceremony at the African Heritage House in Nairobi, have donated six pictures featured in the book to the people of Kenya. In a statement, the authors said: "There are several reasons why we want to bestow our works to the peoples of Kenya. First of all, our careers in documenting the rituals and ceremonies of the peoples of Africa started in Kenya — a nation which has some of the richest cultural traditions on the continent. This is where we first met each other and formed the association known as African Ceremonies, now headquartered in London." They also said they realised during the book signings that their books are expensive for ordinary people, so they decided ‘‘to bequeath our archives to Kenya through the institutions of the National Museums of Kenya."' The pair have just held a four-month exhibition of the pictures featured in the book for public viewing and what they are giving to Kenya will be moved to Strathmore University in Nairobi, which already holds a small archive of their works from previous books, to enhance that public space where students, faculties and visitors to the university can see and enjoy their work. They said: ''We strongly believe that all of us today can learn a great deal from the ancient communities of Africa, especially when it comes to a sense of community and respect for elders, as well as the age grade ceremonies which prepare each person for the transitions in one’s life including birth, warriorhood, marriage and death. Saying they have learnt the importance of reciprocation while working in Africa, they would like to give back pictures to serve as a source of knowledge and inspiration for posterity. US-born Beckwith and Australia-born Fisher have done extensive research and travelled widely across Africa in the past 40 years documenting the textiles, culture and heritage of communities. They have published several books together.   Witnesses describe scenes of devastation as people were eating lunch. Kenyan president woos Museveni to set up a dry port in Nakuru County.