Tanzania and Kenya are once again locked in a trade war over the testing of goods crossing their borders. Kenya filed a complaint with the East African Community Secretariat after Tanzania held Kenyan goods for more than seven days to collect samples for testing. The directive took effect on February 25. Acting director for quality management at the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) Lazaro Msasalaga told The EastAfrican that for three months, Kenya has subjected Tanzanian products to quality verification before entering its territory. This goes against a mutual agreement on the standards of goods traded within the East African Community. “Spirits and tiles are some of the products from Tanzania that are subjected to quality verification before entering Kenya, despite having a TBS quality mark,” said Mr Msasalaga, adding that the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) has been taking samples of the products for verification in Nairobi, a process that can take a month. “I wrote to Kebs about this matter, but they have never responded, prompting us to retaliate,” Mr Msasalaga said. In a letter seen by The EastAfrican, TBS Quality Assurance Officer Simon Kidiga directed the agency’s officers at the borders and ports to inspect Kenyan products whether or not they have a Kebs quality mark. “The consignments will be cleared after conforming to standards and other regulations as per our procedures,” said Mr Kidiga. The EAC Secretariat warned the two countries against introducing more trade barriers. The EAC Secretariat’s director-general in-charge of Customs and Trade Kenneth Bagamuhunda said there shouldn’t be double testing. “We are still trying to establish the facts on the ground. TBS is yet to give us a response on this issue,” Mr Bagamuhunda told The EastAfrican. Kebs had not responded to our questions on the matter by press time. EAC partner states agreed that once the quality of a product has been tested and approved in the home country, it is allowed to enter a member state’s territory without being subjected to further screening. This is meant to reduce the cost of doing business in the region. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) said its members incurred huge losses due to delayed clearance of goods. According to KAM, the metal and automotive sub-sectors have been the most affected by the standoff. “This negates the spirit of regional integration,” said Phyllis Wakiaga, KAM chief executive. Mr Kidiga said the directive is simply a short-term measure meant to “confirm” the quality of goods by Kenyan manufacturers entering the Tanzanian market. Last week, Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for EAC Affairs Adan Mohamed held a meeting with his Tanzanian counterpart to try and address the standoff at the Namanga border. “We have agreed to dispatch senior officials to Namanga to resolve outstanding issues,” said Mr Mohamed on his Twitter handle. Kenya and Tanzania have been locked in persistent trade disputes worsening their trade relations. Past disputes include a ban by Kenya on liquefied petroleum gas from Tanzania, which saw Dar retaliate by blocking Kenyan milk and its products, and cigarettes.- Additional reporting by Patty Magubira   Volume of trade in the region is not high enough to prevent Asian giants from swooping in. Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) of ET302 found. The Rwandan opposition politician calls for justice following death of Anselme Mutuyimana.