It’s just what you need to relax, you work way too hard...” her sister’s voice came through the phone. “Yeah, yeah…but I have a full schedule this month and I…” Rachel began, rolling her eyes at the lecture she’d heard countless times. “It’s a long weekend at the end of this week. Just a short visit? Please?” “Fine,” Rachel sighed and gave in. Her sister wasn’t going to let up this time. “I’ll see you tomorrow.” ************************** Rachel woke up frazzled. She had stayed up late planning and packing for this impromptu weekend away after working a 50-hour work week. She hopped into the shower, hurriedly dressed and drank a large, steaming cup of coffee to force herself awake, then rushed off to the bus station. The noisy station set her nerves further on edge. Touts yelled and shoved and grabbed at unsuspecting passers-by who found themselves suddenly inside a vehicle they had no intention of boarding, luggage was hazardously carted around by lanky youth weaving dangerously this way and that. Crying babies and whining children held in the arms of fretful adults added to the chaos. Rachel gritted her teeth, put on her best scowl to discourage any “grabbers” and fought her way through the melee until she found her bus. Quickly showing her ticket, she hopped in, grateful to get away from the commotion, searched for her seat but… “Uhh…excuse me. Hi, you’re in my seat,” Rachel said, showing the hefty woman seated by the window the ticket in her hand. But she was met with an open scowl. “So?” the woman said, “There are many other seats.” She turned away to stare outside. Rachel felt her throat constrict in anger; she was not in the mood for this. “Well, so…I booked that seat,” she started, “that specific…” “What’s going on, madam?” the conductor was suddenly behind her, albeit a little too close. “I booked this seat and she…” Rachel begun. “Ehh, relax madam” the young man smiled, “it’s free seating,” he waved his arm annoyingly in the small space. “Free seating? What’s the point of booking a seat then? Why would…oh, whatever!” Rachel deflated suddenly, it was too early in the day to start a fight. Quickly scanning the bus, she realised with a sinking feeling that the only other free window seat was right behind the bad mannered woman. Inhaling deeply and swallowing her distaste, she slid into her seat and convinced herself it would soon be over, then she’d be at the beach…with sand beneath her toes, nothing but the sound of crashing waves… The city landscape quickly gave way to open land as the bus cruised along and Rachel settled into a reverie. There were plains dotted with trees stretching far off into the horizon where they met blue mountain ranges, bright green patches of farmland peppered here and there with quaint wooden homes, small hills where goats and a few daring cows grazed… “Let us ALL be thankful for our blessings!” a voice roared in the cramped quarters. Rachel and a dozen other passengers whipped their heads in the direction of the intrusion. A short, spindly man was wobbling in the middle of the aisle as he fought to stand in the moving vehicle. “We must all choose gratitude! For THAT,” he paused for effect, “is the true way to blessings and salvation…but remember my friends, to reap you must first sow…” Rachel rolled her eyes in exasperation as he went on and on. Would no one stop him? Everyone seemed to be staring blankly ahead. She craned her neck to look for the conductor but he was in front, busy in conversation with the driver. So she glared at the man, hoping the daggers from her eyes would silence him. But he marched bravely forward, unperturbed. “Even as we pray to get,” he inhaled puffing out his chest, “we must remember to GIVE!” he bellowed. Rachel closed her eyes and sank into her seat. She was seething with irritation inside, but she forced herself not to start another altercation, especially with a “man of the cloth.” She yanked her earphones out of her carry-on, turned the volume as loud as she could stand and tried to drown him out. “Huh!” Rachel woke with a start. She was hot and disoriented. Easing her uncomfortable muscles upright from her slumped position, she reached over to open the window. It didn’t budge. Pulling harder, the suffocating heat around her incentive enough, she grunted with the effort. “Hey, hey madam,” the lazy conductor was again by her side. “Could you open this? Please?” Rachel asked wearily, wishing she’d never left the comfort of her house. She gave it another good yank to demonstrate the problem. “Hey relax,” he proffered her a greasy smile, “it doesn’t open.” “What! What do you mean…?” Rachel felt the veins on her forehead throb as she looked for choice words, but he was already off. Wide baobab trees stood stoic in the dry savannah, flat land interspersed with gently rounded, undulating hills. Rachel stared out the window, it was so hot she could see the hazy rays of heat bouncing off the landscape. She closed her eyes and mentally willed herself to persevere. The journey would be over soon. “Coast Resort coming up!” the conductor yelled. “Anyone?” Rachel’s eyes flew open. Finally! “Yes!” Rachel called, clumsily getting up on stiff feet as the bus came to a stop. Alighting, she stretched and gulped down the fresh, salty air as she waited for the conductor to retrieve her luggage. “You said a green bag?” he asked shiftily. “Yes, a green suitcase,” Rachel peered into the dark luggage hold, “I gave it to you and you put it right there…” her voice fell off as she looked at the empty space, the exact spot she knew her bag had been. “You must have made a mistake,” the youth bristled, getting defensive as he struggled not to show the guilt written plainly on his face. “Rachel! You made it!” She spun round to see her sister flouncing towards them, slowing down when she noticed the murderous look on Rachel’s face. “They’ve…they’ve lost my bag!” she said accusingly. “Now hold on, just relax…” begun her sister. “Relax madam, we didn’t…” started the man. Relax. Rachel lost herself in a fit of frustration. Spotting a clumped piece of dirt near her foot, she grabbed it and lobbed it at the man. He ducked, just as the hefty woman who had taken her seat shoved open the “locked” window with a grunt. The dirt missile hit her square in the chest and exploded as she sputtered in shock. Rachel smiled and stormed off. Now, that was relaxing.   Trade is affected, with goods trucks stuck on either side of the border. Mizero’s pieces borrow heavily from traditional Rwandan weaving designs.