The Safaricom Youth Orchestra has held a graduation ceremony for the Class of 2019, which doubled up as a celebration concert for members at the Michael Joseph Centre, Safaricom House in Nairobi. The Youth Orchestra was formed in 2014 with the aim of providing quality orchestral music instruction to musically talented Kenyan children between the ages of 10 and 17. The children, almost all of them students who are active in music in their schools are drawn from different backgrounds. The orchestra provides the young people with an opportunity to be nurtured and guided by some of Kenya’s finest musicians and music directors. They come together once a week for rehearsals to obtain skills necessary to become Kenya’s next generation of professional musicians. Auditions for new members to join the Safaricom Youth Orchestra will be held this Saturday at the Michael Joseph Centre. The orchestra, a unique one in the region, was launched by Safaricom's chief executive Bob Collymore in 2014 and brings together 70 children — gifted, passionate and committed to their musical journey. Jazz as a music genre has been growing in leaps and bounds in the region, with Safaricom's annual International Jazz Festival being the biggest attraction since its inception in 2014. The festival, a one week long affair has been growing with every subsequent year and features a performance by the Youth Orchestra and by a visiting international jazz musician at a closed charity event, and the end of the week is marked by the festival’s public concert that has become a must-attend calendar event. Past festivals have been graced by US-based South African-born Jonathan Butler, Manu Dibango, the late Hugh Masekela, South Africa's Ladysmith Black Mambazo and Marcus Miller among others. Proceeds from the festival is support the Ghetto Classics programme, a community based programme whose objective is to transform the lives of over 650 underprivileged children in Korogocho, Huruma, Dandora and Mukuru kwa Reuben, as well as students from Farasi Lane Primary School and Muthangari Primary School in Nairobi. The programme uses music education to provide the youth with opportunities to better themselves and their communities, equipping them with skills in live music performance as a means of breaking the cycle of poverty that many of them are born into. The programme also provides them with income generating opportunities and has been supported by proceeds from the Safaricom International Jazz Festival since 2014.   Leaders meet and make right diplomatic noises but deep unease remains. Locking in Uganda guarantees return on investment and growth in business.