Spices give aroma, colour, flavour and even texture to food. The bitter, salty, sour, and sweet tastes are all in this recipe, as well as the fifth taste, umami. The sweetness of the honey, the spiciness of the Sriracha sauce combined with the saltiness of soy sauce, and the umami flavour of oyster sauce is one of my favourite ways to cook salmon. I fry the salmon in a hot non-stick frying pan in order to attain a crispy skin. Cooking fish takes about 10 minutes per inch, turning it halfway through the cooking time. For example, a one-inch fish steak should be cooked for five minutes on each side. If you like your salmon slightly rare in the middle, buy the thick centre-cut fillets. They are less likely to overcook than thinner pieces. Here is an easy way of making sweet and spicy salmon fillet for two people. Ingredients300g salmon fillet2 tablespoons hot Sriracha sauce1 tablespoon soy sauce2 tablespoon oyster sauce1 tablespoon ginger pasteJuice of ½ yellow lemon1 tablespoon honey½ cup broccoli30ml waterVegetable oilSalt Black pepper In a large frying pan, heat about four tablespoons of oil and season the pan well with a pinch of salt and a pinch of black pepper. When you can smell the black pepper, the pan is hot enough. Place your salmon skin side down and fry until browned, do not turn the salmon onto the orange fleshy side. Remove the salmon from the pan and set aside. Add three tablespoons of oil into the same pan and fry the ginger paste until it is slightly browned. Add the Sriracha, soy and oyster sauces and lemon juice and mix well. Pour in 30ml of water and cook until the sauce thickens. Place the fish fillet flesh side down into the pan, to absorb the flavour of the sauce, and simmer for about four minutes. Baste some of the sauce onto the skin and coat it just before serving. Put one teaspoon of salt into a pot of boiling water. Place the broccoli in the pot and steam until bright green and firm. Remove and season lightly with olive oil and a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Place your broccoli on the base of your plate and your salmon fillet on top of it. I always add a lemon wedge because this fish goes well with a little extra lemon.   Bujumbura withdraws BBC's operating licence, extends ban on VOA. Refugees minister says Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan are now stable.