John Baptist Ssekubulwa’s maiden solo art exhibition is a conversation on the contemporary cultural, economic, political and social tragedies in the world with the African continent as a reference point. The exhibition, titled Brain Damage, symbolises the vulnerability of communities vulnerable to systems that dictate the world order. The Ugandan artist brings attention to the uncomfortable position these vulnerabilities have come to occupy in our cultural, economic, social and political dichotomy. Ssekubulwa uses images of the brain to show vulnerability. The exhibition of 15 pieces opened on March 9 and runs to April 30, at the Afriart Gallery in Industrial Area, Kampala. On display are oils on canvas and an installation of white human brains. Africa is represented as a flower attracting butterflies. Wagon of Disunited Unity is about the AU. “The African Union boasts of its strong grip on the unity of African states. But it seems rather a wagon of disunited unity, as we see African states struggling to maintain democracy and loosen their debt burden caused by international bodies and their former colonial powers,” Ssekubulwa says. Revisiting Our Nightmares represents the mass exodus of African youth to Europe and the Middle East, in unforgiving conditions of life and death reminiscent of the dark ages of the slave trade. “I put up this show to articulate my personal view about world affairs and things that affect the African continent. I have been asking myself how much control we have over situations that happen around us as a people … hence the brains recurring in a rather vulnerable position,” Ssekubulwa said. “These art works are not a judgment about the narratives I’m painting but rather a trigger for conversation and debate,” he added. Ssekubulwa holds a Bachelor of Industrial and Fine Art degree from Makerere University. He took part in the 2018 Kampala Art Biennale.   Ssekubulwa uses images of the brain to show vulnerability. "Small wars and disputes are useless and a waste of time." They are expected to discuss joint projects between the two countries and the EAC integration