The mother of Nigeria’s former national coach Samson Siasia is still missing two months after her abduction. Beauty Ogere Siasia,80, was abducted in her house on July 15 in Odoni in Sagbama area in oil rich Bayelsa State, southern Nigeria. Now having spent more than seven weeks in captivity, family members are now worried about her health. Siasia’s younger brother, Dennis Siasia, said the abduction had brought distress to the family as they are unable to raise the $230,000 ransom demanded by the kidnappers. Mrs Ogere had initially been kidnapped in November 2015 but was released 12 days after a ransom was paid. Last month, the world's football governing body slapped Siasia with a life ban and a 50,000 Swiss Francs ($50,000, 46,000 euros) fine after finding him guilty of taking bribes to fix matches. Siasia denies the allegation and has filed an appeal with Fifa and the Court of Arbitration for Sport (Cas) against a the ban. “I wish to state that I have never been and would never be a party to any form of unethical conduct or perversion in the discharge of my duties in any capacity. I built my career in the football industry on the foundation of hard work, integrity, consistency and God. “In all my career, I have done nothing but serve my country and clubs to the best of my personal and professional ability, with all my strength and might, with discipline, pride and passion and an awareness that it is a privilege to be an ambassador of our great nation. “It is my greatest hope and belief that my country also stands by and with me at a time like this,” Siasia said. Meanwhile, the the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (Swan) has appealed for the release of Siasia’s mother. Swan’s chairman in Bayelsa, Alambo Datonye said: “This should not happen to anyone of her age and mother of the Coach. who brought joy to millions of Nigerians and a tactician donning the national colours, bringing glory to the country.’’ The further appealed to the police and other security agencies to assist in rescuing the octogenarian.   His family and President Mnangagwa had been at odds over where he would be buried. Malaria is a top killer of children under five in the country.