Eleven babies and 107 women have been rescued from from a dawn hospital fire in eastern Algeria that killed eight new borns on Tuesday. Nearly 30 staff were also rescued, emergencies services said but the cause of the fire in the Oued Souf hospital, 500 kilometres south east of Algiers was not immediately established. The babies died from burns and inhaling smoke and prime minister Noureddine Bedoui has ordered an investigation into the fire, the second to hit the maternity hospital. A Moroccan journalist on trial over alleged extra-marital relations and an "illegal abortion" has accused police of forcing a medical examination on her when she was in custody. Hajar Raissouni told a court hearing she was detained by a dozen police officers and medically tested latest without anaesthetic to ease the pain. Hundreds of Moroccan women who signed a petition in solidarity said Article 490 of Morocco's penal code which punishes sexual relations outside wedlock and abortions unless the mother's life in danger were "unfair and obsolete. A strike by more than 10,000 Liberian health workers that began on Monday continued on Tuesday crippling services to patients including pregnant women and children. The workers are demanding salary arrears and regular supplies of medicine and equipment in a country ravaged by civil war and an Ebola epidemic."We do not have medicines in the hospitals, no materials like gloves to protect ourselves when treating patients, the laboratories are unequipped and most of the workers have not got their July salaries," George Williams, secretary general of the Health Workers Association said. Representatives from Cameroon's restive Anglophone region will form a commanding majority in the National Dialogue scheduled for September 30 in Yaounde. According to Cameroon's only English daily Guardian Post, President Paul Biya has ordered organisers to ensure that the region which has been clamouring for secession contribute 200 of the 300 delegates set for the conference The conference follows mediation talks in Switzerland which convinced President Biya to pursue a political rather than military solution to the crisis. An opposition politician in Rwanda has been stabbed to death, his FDU-Inkingi party leader Victoire Ingabire says. Syridio Dusabumuremyi, FDU-Inkingi’s co-ordinator, was at work in his canteen in the central district of Muhanga when he was attacked by two men, Ms Ingabire said. Two months ago, Eugène Ndereyimana, a FDU-Inkingi representative in the east of Rwanda, went missing and is yet to be found. In March, Anselme Mutuyimana, the party’s spokesperson, was abducted and later found dead in a forest in the west of the country. Ghana’s security forces have foiled “an elaborate plot” to target the presidency “with the ultimate aim of destabilising the country." The information ministry said three people, including a local arms manufacturer, were arrested in the security operation and several weapons seized. It said the operation followed “15 months of surveillance and gathering of evidence on the activities of the prime suspects and others.” Families who lost relatives in two fatal Boeing 737 Max air crashes - in Indonesia and Ethiopia - are set to receive about $144,500 each from the company. The money comes from a $50m financial assistance fund, which Boeing announced in July, on a no prejudice basis. The fund said families must submit claims before 2020 but lawyers of the victim's have dismissed the fund as a publicity stunt. More than 340 people died in the crashes prompting countries to order grounding of 737 Max plane as investigators evaluate its safety. Four EU countries on Monday agreed a new temporary system to automatically distribute migrants arriving in Italy and Malta from across the Mediterranean which will be discussed by the full EU next month.The deal to determine which countries will welcome migrants rescued in the central Mediterranean hopes to end the long, drawn-out negotiations that have seen vulnerable asylum seekers including babies stranded at sea, sometimes for weeks.Maltese Interior Minister Michael Farrugia told journalists after talks with his French, German and Italian counterparts that the agreement would ensure no country should be left alone under stress.   It will be the first time since 2007 that the Chogm meet will be returning to the region. Donald Trump says all people have the right of all people to live in dignity.