A key suspect in Nigeria has confessed to killing 15 women as police investigate a series of strangulation in Port Harcourt hotel rooms last month. Rivers State police chief Mustapha Dandaura said the suspect had initially only admitted to killing five women, but after further interrogation admitted the number was 15. “He took us to all the rooms he booked and killed those girls and he said he had killed nine [in Port Harcourt]. “He killed one in Lagos, one in Owerri, one in Sapele, one in Aba, one in Benin and one in Ibadan so now we have 15,” Mr Dandaura said, prompting the setting up of a taskforce to improve security at hotels. Zimbabwe is to temporarily reopen a water treatment plant as the vital commodity joins food, fuel, medicine and electricity among basics in short supply in the capital Harare. The Morton Jaffray Water Treatment Works suspended operation on Monday because of a cash crunch that has hindered importation water treatment chemicals.The city's acting mayor Enock Mupamawonde said contingent supplies of chemicals had been found and paid for, including from the second city Bulawayo, but they will only last a week. In the wake of protests calling for President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi's ouster, Egypt is under fire Tuesday for arresting journalists, blocking news websites and messaging channels like Facebook.The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), said three Egyptian journalists were arrested for covering protests on Friday night and several websites disrupted including those of the BBC and Al-Hurra television.Safaa Faisal, Egypt's BBC bureau chief, confirmed the blockade which Makram Ahmed, head of Egypt's Supreme Media Regulation Council, attributed to "inaccurate coverage" of the protests. Zimbabwean police on Tuesday defied a court order allowing a doctors' union leader, whose suspected kidnapping sparked wide protests, from going to neighbouring South Africa for medical treatment. Magombeyi was found traumatised on Thursday night, 30 kilometres (18 miles) from the capital Harare after he was kidnapped on September 14 by three men. On Tuesday afternoon, dozens of policemen went to the Harare hospital where Magombeyi was undergoing treatment to prevent him from leaving for South Africa, disobeying a Harare court order issued hours earlier. A Malawi court on Tuesday convicted two Chinese nationals, two Malawians and a Zambian over a huge cache of ivory and rhino horns.The five - two Chinese, two Malawians and a Zambian will be sentenced on October 21 and could get up to 30 years in jail as African countries clamp on poaching. The Zambian pleaded guilty and was given a four-year prison sentence after they were found with more than 21 kilograms of ivory and $42,000 worth of rhino horns in December 2017. An Algerian military court has sentenced the brother of former president Abdelaziz Bouteflika and three co-defendants to 15 years in prison, the state APS news agency reported on Wednesday. Said Bouteflika, widely seen as the real power behind the presidency after his brother suffered a debilitating stroke in 2013, went on trial on Monday alongside two former intelligence chiefs and a political party head. They were convicted of "undermining the authority of the army" and "conspiring" against the state in order to bring about regime change" as Bouteflika's two decade regime came tumbling down in April. China President Xi Jinping opened a futuristic new airport in the capital Beijing on Wednesday which is expected to receive 100 million passengers at full capacity by 2040. The single terminal, starfish-shaped Beijing Daxing International Airport located 46 kilometres south of Tiananmen Square has eight runways, measures 173 acres and has a metro line underneath linking the City Center. The airport alone cost $17.5 billion which would rise to $48 billion if rail and road links are included. It will rival Atlanta in the United States as the world's busiest airport.   Says Maguli has done a good job and should be allowed in office longer. He has struggled 10 years to generate interest to start a fund to help victims.