Interpol has warned the East African Police Chiefs Co-operation Organisation to brace for terrorism, money laundering, carjacking, drug and human trafficking, smuggling of weapons, poaching and piracy. Much as Africa is home to fastest growing economies in the world, criminals are finding ways of derailing the efforts put into shaping the future of the continent, the Interpol Secretary General for East Africa, Jean-François Gadeceu, cautioned in Arusha on Friday. Mr Gadeceu told the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Co-operation Organisation (EAPCCO) General Assembly that criminal enterprises were looking at Africa as a major target. “In the middle of these two opposing scenarios; one made of prosperity, growth and innovation for the greater good and the other made of fear and violence, we urge you the police leaders to work closely with Interpol,” he said. Cybercrime Mr Gadeceu said mobile devices had become the target of criminals who were robbing members of the public through mobile money transfers. He cited attempts by a cybercrime gang to siphon cash from M-Pesa accounts which the Kenyan Police foiled last December. However, Safaricom admitted that it had already lost Ksh20 million ($200,000) to the criminals. Mr Gadeceu said Interpol had successfully carried out joint operations with EAPCCO member states, including Operation Simba involving Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, which established over 800 hits on genocide, fraud and drug and human trafficking. The Interpol National Central Bureau (NCBs) in Nairobi assisted in the collection of over 8,000 DNA samples, leading to the identification of all passengers of the crashed Ethiopian Airlines flight ET 302. Officiating the opening ceremony of the EAPCCO forum, Tanzania’s Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, said criminals were benefiting from poor co-operation among security organs in the region. “The growth of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and removal of non-tariff barriers, the region has become part of the global village,” he said. PM Majaliwa said regional police chiefs need to work even more closely in order to stop criminals from gaining ground on transnational organised crimes. Solutions He asked the forum to work on solutions for a number of challenges facing the region, including lack of political will which denies security organs powers to thwart transnational organised crimes. He said laws were not streamlined in all EAPCCO member states, enabling criminals to commit crimes in one country and run to another to hide. “Another challenge is poor record-keeping of transnational criminals that are listed in the Interpol database, which enables them to easily cross borders,” he said. Mr Majaliwa said corruption among police officers also provided criminals with shelter. “Corruption must be fought at all cost, lest it delays growth and denies people justice,” he said. Established 21 years ago, the 14-member EAPCCO supports the implementation of joint strategies for the management and monitoring of cross-borders, arms trafficking investigations, criminal records management and training on crime and small arms. The members are Burundi, Comoroe, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda.   Ethiopia, Tanzania and Burundi appear to have abandoned Kenyan port. Under the EU, Kenya accessed UK markets on duty-free quota-free arrangements.