Harare, South African musicians have cancelled shows scheduled for Zimbabwe as tension grows over attacks against foreigners and foreign-owned businesses in South Africa. Mafikizolo and Mlindo the Vocalist said they were postponing their shows scheduled for Zimbabwe’s capital Harare and the second city of Bulawayo on Friday and Saturday, respectively. There have been retaliatory attack of South Africans and their businesses in other African countries following reports of violence against foreigners in South Africa. “I’m supposed to travel to Zimbabwe this weekend, but I fear for my life since I’m South African,” tweeted Mlindo, who had a show scheduled for Bulawayo. “My country is doing so much harm to our brothers and sisters I have no choice but to wonder what lies in another African country as an African.” Zimbabweans had already started an online campaign to boycott Mafikizolo’s show in Harare when the organisers decided to call it off. The duo of Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe recorded a video message announcing that they were no longer travelling to Zimbabwe because they were concerned about their personal security. “We would like to let our brothers and sisters know that as Mafikizolo we condemn the killings that have been taking place – the killings of innocent people, the killings of our innocent brothers from the African continent,” Nciza said. “We want you to know that we will continue to keep you in our prayers. “We urge our government to take strong steps, harsh steps to punish the perpetrators, the individuals that are responsible for these horrific crimes.” There is a large population of Zimbabwean immigrants living in South Africa and most of them are economic refugees. Zimbabwe said it is worried about the continued xenophobic attacks and urged its citizens in South Africa to be vigilant. “The people of Zimbabwe condemn the senseless acts of violence witnessed in South Africa,” Foreign Affairs minister Sibusiso Moyo tweeted on Thursday. “Before borders, we were one; we must remain as one my dear brothers and sisters.” Several Zimbabweans have been killed in South Africa in past xenophobic attacks.   The ceremony celebrates the country’s success in protecting mountain gorilla species. Part of its drive to stamp out organised criminal networks.