Switzerland auctioned on Sunday 25 luxury cars owned by E. Guinea's president's son Teodorin Obiang Nguema for $27 million. Among the cars that went under the hammer at a Geneva golf club were seven Ferraris, three Lamborghinis, five Bentleys, a Maserati and a McLaren. One of the most "rare and remarkable" cars, a 2014 Lamborghini Veneno Roadster, was sold for $8.3m to an anonymous buyer with all proceeds going to social projects in Equatorial Guinea. The cars were confiscated by Swiss justice after the opening in 2016 of a financial wrongdoing case against Obiang, son of President Teodoro Obiang Nguema who has ruled for 40 years. Delegates started arriving early in the morning at the Yaounde Conference Center for the Major National Dialogue that is hoped to determine the future of secession leaning English speaking regions. About 600 delegates, two in three of them from anglophone southwest and northwest, are expected at the week-long conference called by President Paul Biya. The talks to be chaired by Prime Minister Joseph Dion Ngute, an anglophone, are already turning controversial with claims that French-speaking delegates are enlisted as representing Anglophone interests. Prominent Egyptian dissident Alaa Abdel Fattah and his lawyer Mohamed al-Baqer were detained in Cairo on Sunday while attending an interrogation by State Security prosecutors. Abdel Fattah, 37, is serving five years of probation after completing a five-year jail sentence in March for staging a protest against a 2013 law effectively banning public gatherings. His probation requires him to report to a police station near his home in Cairo stay overnight but he was not released on Sunday morning. Sudan has summoned Cairo's envoy to Khartoum in protest over the detention of a Sudanese student by Egyptian authorities during a crackdown on rallies against President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The Sudanese foreign ministry said the Egyptian ambassador had been informed of concerns raised by the Waleed Abdulrahman's family and failure to allow the Sudan embassy in Cairo to see him. Rights groups say more than 2,000 people, including lawyers, activists, professors and journalists, have been detained since the anti-Sisi protests erupted on September 20. Fifty-five people were given life sentences in the Democratic Republic of Congo over the weekend by a military tribunal for the massacre of civilians in the northern region of Ituri in 2017 and 2018. The army said those sentenced by the tribunal in Bunia included a soldier, a policeman and an agent for the intelligence services. The army's spokesman for the region, Jules Ngongo, said the defendants were found guilty of crimes against humanity including rape and murder in the Djugu territory. SenegalPresident Macky Sall has pardoned former Dakar mayor and political rival Khalifa Sall, 63, who had been sentenced to prison for fraudulent use of public funds. Khalifa Sall, no relation of the president, has been in jail since March 2017 and was sentenced to five years in prison in August 2018, barring him from presidential elections in February.The presidency said on Sunday Sall, who served as Dakar mayor between 2009 and 2018 and was elected to Parliament in 2017 bud did not seat, was returning to his family. Triple jumper Fabrice Zango has won Burkina Faso the country's first ever medal at the World Athletics Championships. The African champion won bronze setting an African record of 17.66m in Doha, Qatar. American Christian Taylor won gold, with his compatriot Will Claye taking silver.   Officials assigned to the task failed to take the matter seriously until ICJ came calling. Abdallah Ahmed Ibrahim says the regional court but they have no capacity to handle the case