Global philanthropic organisation Luminate, has invested $1 million towards the training of media practitioners in Kenya on the use of technology and reporting matters of public interest. Luminate announced on Thursday that it will set up a training programme called the Baraza Media Lab to hone the skills of journalists, publishers, and media entrepreneurs. The lab is expected to open before the end of the year and will be run in partnership with Mettà, an innovation and entrepreneur’s hub, in Nairobi. Mettà Nairobi general manager Maurice Otieno is optimistic that the lab will build talent, content, media funding, and will be a “place that journalists can call home.” Ory Okolloh, managing director at Luminate said the training is to help create a sustainable and independent media. “We believe that supporting a vibrant media eco-system in Kenya is critical on a number of fronts. From providing an enabling environment for independent media to thrive, to encouraging collaboration and innovation to happen within the media industry,” she said. This will be done through modules focused on innovative content delivery, payment infrastructure, and the wider use of technology like data and analytics to gauge newsroom performance. Baraza Media Lab launch comes at a time when Kenyan media faces several challenges. According to a 2018 research report by Reboot, lack of innovation among media organisations, skills gaps among media practitioners, weak networking between media and aligned sectors and lean staff at major media houses were the major challenges. Churchill Otieno, the president of the Kenya Editors Guild, said Baraza Media Lab was a welcome addition to efforts by media organisations to strengthen media freedom and independence in Kenya. “For years, the Kenyan media sector has faced pressing challenges including commercial pressure, low capacity, a legal framework fraught with gaps and weak co-operation with external stakeholders. “Baraza Media Lab will be a catalyst to rekindle strong skills development, more collaboration, and ultimately stronger independence in the sector,” said Mr Otieno.   Process server claims a Somali man kidnapped him at embassy over cancelled contract documents. Kenya is the only country to improve from last year as Uganda’s ranking dropped.