Violent clashes erupted in eSwatini on Wednesday after police cracked down on civil servants protesting against low pay and rising living costs in Africa's last absolute monarchy. Teachers and workers went on strike last week in the four main towns of eSwatini , a kingdom until recently known as Swaziland surrounded by South Africa and Mozambique. They accuse King Mswati III of draining public coffers at the expense of his subjects through "expensive" royal ceremonies and trips abroad involving "huge delegations" and "shopping sprees". The UN health agency on Wednesday said it would carry out an emergency vaccination campaign in six DR Congo provinces to counter an outbreak of measles that has killed 3,600 since the start of the year. Authorities have registered more than 183,800 suspected cases of the disease, preventable with a vaccine, from the start of the year until September 17 had 3,667 deaths, mostly of children. The campaign aims to vaccinate around 825,000 children in 24 regions, over a period of nine days, the agency said. Rights groups have accused Egyptian authorities of arresting more than 1,000 people and detaining prominent critics in response to last week's protests calling for the ouster of general-turned-President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The wave of arrests comes ahead of a "million-man march" Friday called for by an exiled businessman whose online videos accusing Sisi and the military of corruption sparked last week's rallies. The Egyptian Centre for Freedoms and Rights (ECRF) reported 1,298 arrests and 1,003 detentions including that of Khaled Dawoud, a senior member of a broad coalition of opposition parties that Tuesday called for a "national dialogue" with authorities. At least 14 journalists were arrested, physically assaulted or had their equipment destroyed in Cameroon over the past three years as press freedom deteriorated. A report published on Saturday by ADISI-Cameroon and the African Freedom of Expression Exchange (AFEX) attributed the increased intolerance to the bloody crisis in the country’s Anglophone region. They accused the government of reluctance to promote civil liberties, saying southwest region officials only provided documents in French, ignoring calls to translate them into english, the country's other official language. Zimbabwe police have lost an appeal against an order that they let a trade unionist travel to South Africa for treatment. A Harare court had on Tuesday allowed the medical check-up but the police forcefully prevented Peter Magombeyi, who leads a doctors' union, from leaving his hospital room. On Wednesday the doctors were trying to serve the police with the fresh orders so that they can release Dr Magombeyi. The government has insisted that Dr Magombeyi was free to travel to a place of his choice so long as his personal security was assured. Senegal's Mouride Brotherhood will on Friday inaugurate a 30,000-capacity mosque in the capital Dakar, touted as the largest in West Africa, which has been under construction for a decade. The Massalikul Jinaan ("The Paths to Paradise") mosque is built on a 14-acre site in Bopp which was donated by the government of the 90-percent Muslim nation. The brotherhood was founded by Sheikh Ahmadou Bamba Mbacke in the 19th-century preaches service to humanity and wields considerable clout in Senegal and The Gambia. Boeing has reached settlements with 11 families of victims from October's Lion Air crash, paying out $1.2 million for each victim, a plaintiffs' attorney said Wednesday. The Wisner Law Firm, which specializes in aviation cases, said it was optimistic about reaching settlements on another six cases it is handling for families. On Monday Boeing announced it would give $144,500 to each of the families of the 346 victims of the Lion Air and Ethiopian Airlines crashes which occurred within five months of each other. Boeing still faces more than 100 lawsuits in federal court in Chicago following the two 737 MAX disasters and has said the financial assistance was without prejudice. The International Monetary Fund on Wednesday confirmed Kristalina Georgieva of Bulgaria, a 2016 nominee for the UN secretary general post, as its managing director from October 1. In her acceptance, Georgieva spoke of tempestuous times for the global economy in the face of disappointing growth, trade tensions and historically high debt levels. "This means also dealing with issues like inequalities, climate risks and rapid technological change," she said in a statement.   Jacques Chirac died Thursday morning surrounded by family. Authorities grappling with keeping elephants from farms, and preventing crocodile and hippo