After taking a friend on a morning tour of Malindi, I was hot and hungry. And it just so happened, we were in the vicinity of the Malindi Sea Fishing Club. The club is open to all for a daily membership and ideal for lunch in town on a hot and windless day. It’s a quaint old club set in a pretty garden shaded by tall trees by the beach. Hoping off the Tuk-tuk, we walked through the grand entry graced by the edifice of a Great White shark baring its jaws. Inside is a simple old-fashioned club set up in the 1950s, with nothing ostentatious to it. The whitewashed walls—or rather columns—are open without glass windows and the low walls between the columns double as sitting space. The long bar offers much welcomed cold beers and spirits for those needing something stronger. I sat at the bar and ordered a cold gin and tonic. Chef Eddie Aniere steps out of his simple little kitchen to show the menu. He is also the chef and owner of Barefoot Beach Camp with a kitchen at the sailing club. The menu is straight forward: Soups and toasted sandwiches, which I find inappropriate for the hot weather; Salads from mixed to Mediterranean is too light for my hunger; Chicken with chips and salad is not for me while at the Coast; Steak and pastas with a choice of Bolognese, carbonara or pomodoro is too mundane. So I settle for seafood. I am not a fan of deep fried foods even if it is calamari or spicy prawns, but l am craving sea food. “Don’t you have anything else on the seafood side?” I ask the chef. “I have the daily special,” he says with a twinkle in his eye. “What’s that?” l eagerly ask. “A sushi and sashimi platter,” he replies. I am over the moon. I take the last swig of my drink as platter appears, in less than 10 minutes since ordering. They look like beautiful art pieces except that the canvas is a white porcelain plate set with fresh tidings from the sea.   The first bite of the thinly sliced kingfish dipped in ginger sauce with a touch of wasabi is tantalising to the taste buds. It’s raw, it’s fresh. The taste is pure. “The daily special changes every day,” says chef Aniere. And that depends on the catch of the day the chef receives every day from the local fishermen at the fish market just a few minutes walk from the club. Every morsel of my sashimi is heavenly. The fresh prawns, smoked fish, octopus dipped in the soy sauce with a hint of fresh lime. On a hot afternoon it’s the perfect meal but also an acquired taste for raw fish isn’t for everyone. Meanwhile, Aniere’s mother-in-law is ravishing her curry prawns with rice. Sashimi is not her choice of food. “We serve everything here from breakfast to dinner,” tells Aniere, pleased that his sashimi platters have been eaten to the last morsel. I am also impressed with the prices on the menu. Every dish is less than a Ksh1,000 ($10) in a beautiful setting that is exciting to learn about. It is also child-friendly during the day and if you want to impress them with real models of sharks and sailfishes out of this sea, it’s the place to bring them too. Besides, there’s plenty of garden for them to run around safely. “Serving seafood is my favourite. There is so much you can do with it,” continues Aniere. I am thinking of the calamari in orange sauce with a tinge of saffron for colour, another of Aniere’s specials l have had. “I like to create, mix and match tastes,” he avers. Ugali is a bit heavy over lunch but that is his other ‘new’ creation. You add olive oil and salt to the ugali mix which makes it silky soft. Break it into bite-size pates topped with mozzarella cheese...who would think of ugali with cheese?   Minister was directed to stop procurement for construction of Kampala-Jinja Expressway. The travel alert that also cites dangers of crime, terrorism and anti-gay actions.