Following is a list of stars who named a baby gorilla on Friday at Kwita Izina (mountain gorilla naming ceremony) in Kinigi, northern Rwanda. Nation Media Group Chairman. He holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil Engineering) from the University of Nairobi. He retired from NMG as the Group Chief Executive Officer on 31st October 2006 after working for the Company for thirteen years.   He was appointed a non-executive director in December 2006 and was elected the Chairman of the Board in September 2009. Dr Kiboro was awarded an honorary Doctor of Philosophy degree by Kenyatta University in December 2015. He is a non-executive director and is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee. Dr Kiboro is the Chancellor of Riara University and the Chairman of Family Bank Limited and Wilfay Investments Limited, a family owned enterprise. "Jeremy is a serial technology & media entrepreneur and passionate advocate for sustainable tourism. He is the Founder & CEO of Beautiful Destinations. Voted by FAST COMPANY as one of the most innovative companies in the world, the award-winning nation branding agency has built social media's largest tourism community with over 20 million people following on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and Weibo. He is also a passionate advocate for conservation giving keynote speeches & advising the United Nations World Tourism Organization and as an ambassador for the World Wildlife Foundation." Programme Specialist, Sustainable Growth Unit, UNDP Rwanda. She is also responsible for the conservation and restoration of the Gishwati Forest Reserve which led to the creation of Gishwati Mukura National Park. He is the Ambassador of the State of Israel in Rwanda. He serves as a career diplomat in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1990 in different capacities, such as the Economic Adviser at the Israeli Mission to the UN in NY and Deputy Ambassador to the UN in Geneva as well as director of the OECD department in the Foreign Ministry. In April 2019 he became the first Ambassador of the Jewish State to reside in Kigali. Ms Amina Jane Mohammed is the current Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations. She was formerly the Federal Minister of the Environment of Nigeria. Niklas co-founded unicorn payment start-up Klarna in 2005. 10 years later he left his operational role as deputy CEO and founded the Norrsken Foundation - a tech-for-good ecosystem for social impact entrepreneurs daring to tackle societies biggest challenges. Norrsken currently houses 125+ companies in Europe´s largest impact hub. Ngabo Médard Jobert, better known as Meddy, is a Rwandan RnB and Pop artist. She is a Sri Lankan Businessperson and Philanthropist. Throughout her career and via her respected voice of leadership, she continues to challenge the boundaries of complacency, forging new ground for women, entrepreneurship and animal welfare in Sri Lanka. Aloysius Paulus Maria van Gaal OON is a Dutch former football manager and player. At club level, he served as manager of Ajax, Barcelona, AZ Alkmaar, Bayern Munich and Manchester United, as well as having two spells in charge of the Netherlands national team. Sherrie Silver is an Actress who featured in Africa United movie which was part filmed in Rwanda, She is also a choreographer and has performed for HE President Kagame, and is well known for choreographing Childish Gambino’s This Is America, which she won an MTV VMA Award for Best Choreography. A biologist turned photographer and filmmaker, Ronan Donovan’s camera has taken him to all seven continents in search of elusive wildlife and stories about our natural world. Princess Basma bint Ali is an advocate of biodiversity conservation and sustainable agriculture in Jordan; she is the founder of many non-government environmental organizations like the Royal Botanic Garden of Jordan (RBG) and the Royal Marine Conservation Society of Jordan (JREDS). She serves as a member in many national and international committees and a board member of the BGCI. Young Rwandan and good Samaritan who built a road on his own to facilitate movements of people and goods in his village within the Karongi District. She is President of the Commonwealth Games Federation, which oversees one of the world’s biggest sporting events—the Commonwealth Games and Commonwealth Youth Games. Paul Milton is the founder of Milton Group who developed the Singita Kwitonda Lodge on behalf of investors Mr Paul Tudor Jones and Mr Anders Povlsen. Paul is a conservationist and has been working in Rwanda for the past 5 years. The Founder and Executive Chairman of Singita, Luke Bailes, has been a pioneer in tourism conservation on the continent for decades. Naomi Elaine Campbell is an English model, actress, and businesswoman. Joseph has won the highest number of titles in Rwanda. In 2018 he won La Tropicale Amissa Bongo with the National Team of Rwanda. In 2018 he also won the first edition of Tour de L’Espoir in Cameroon. The first only African race of Under 23. He was voted the best African rider of the year 2018. Marco Lambertini has held a deep fascination and love for all forms of life since he was child. Beginning when he volunteered for WWF in his native Italy when he was 12 years old, he returned to WWF International five years ago, as the Director General. HE Hailemariam Desalegn Former Prime Minister of Ethiopia. Awarded Ranger Post Leader of Akagera National Park.  Jean Neposcene Musekura Musekura represents his peers with whom he has served as a ranger in the Volcanoes National Park and is among the three Rwandan rangers who have won the African ranger awards this year. HE Karén Chalyan Ambassador of the Russian Federation to the Republic of Rwanda. Tony Adams Tony Alexander Adams MBE is an English football manager. As a player, Adams played for Arsenal and England, captaining both teams. Adams spent his entire playing career of 22 years as a centre back at Arsenal. Ne-Yo Shaffer Chimere Smith, better known by his stage name Ne-Yo, is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actor and dancer.   Robert Mugabe was on a long list of African leaders forced from power. Dr Ismail Wais in discussion over tasks necessary for the formation unity government.