Sports Illustrated's annual swimsuit issue, best known for its racy covers of scantily clad bikini models, will feature for the first time a Muslim model wearing a hijab and burkini, the magazine said Monday. Somali-American model Halima Aden's rookie spread will be set in Kenya, where she born in a refugee camp and lived until the age of seven. Sports Illustrated also posted a picture of her posing lying down in shallow water, wearing a turquoise hijab, long yellow earrings and a deep blue burkini -- the full length swimsuit favored by some Muslim women. Halima, 21, made headlines at age 19 when she was the first woman to wear a hijab in the Miss Minnesota USA Pageant, where she made the semi-finals in 2016. She has previously featured on the cover of British Vogue and walked on the New York Fashion Week runway. Tanzania on Monday launched Africa's first fully fledged Radio-chemistry Analysis Laboratory at the country's Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC), located in the northern safari capital of Arusha. The new radiochemistry laboratory was built at a cost of $4.3 million. The lab will help Tanzania reinforce strict control in mining, handling and the transportation of Radioactive Materials," Tanzanian Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said after inaugurating the facility. Tanzania hopes to build nuclear reactors in order to exploit uranium deposits for energy. The Mkuju River Uranium Development Project has nearly 59,000 tonnes of uranium deposits, among the highest in Africa. The Republic of Congo has lifted the suspension of the party of a top rebel leader, preacher Frederic Bintsamou, alias Pastor Ntumi, sources said Monday.A letter to that effect was to be handed over to the pastor from the interior minister (Raymond Zephyrin Mboulou) enabling the party to redeploy nationwide," the source told AFP.Bintsamou has been keeping a low profile in Pool since his party was suspended three years ago after violence erupted in the wake of 2016 presidential elections.Denis Sassou Nguesso, who has been in power for 35 years and won the poll, is a long-standing rival of Bintsamou, 54, who led a revolt in April 2016, before signing a ceasefire with the government in December 2017. At least 17 people have died in communal violence triggered by a personal dispute in western Ethiopia, a report said Monday. The AMMA news agency said there were clashes Saturday and Sunday pitting the Gumuz ethnic group against the Amhara, the second largest in the country, in Benishangul Gumuz state. The director of communications, Asmahegn Asres, in neighbouring Amhara state, told AMMA that 11 Amhara and six Gumuz people were killed in the clashes and the toll could mount. Election officials in Benin counted votes on Monday, a mere formality after the controversial April 28 parliamentary polls in which there was not a single opposition candidate. The internet, cut on Sunday for the voting, had returned. All candidates contesting for the 83 parliamentary seats come from just two parties, the Republican Bloc and the Progressive Union, and both of them are allied to President Patrice Talon.The country's main opposition parties were effectively barred from fielding candidates by tough new eligibility rules. The opposition party called for a boycott of the polls, meaning the voter turnout will be a clear guide on who has the people. Algerian Finance Minister Mohamed Loukal was questioned Monday in a probe into alleged corruption, state television reported, part of a wider crackdown following the fall of veteran leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika. The former central bank governor is the first government official to appear before prosecutors since mass protests erupted in February against Bouteflika's two-decade rule. A prosecutor also separately questioned former police chief Abdelghani Hamel as part of a judicial inquiry into alleged bribery. Since Bouteflika stepped down in early April amid protests, several regime officials and businessmen close to him have been sacked, detained or questioned over alleged graft. The National Oil Company said a rocket propelled grenade was lopped at its Al-Sharara oil field in overnight fighting on Monday, without identifying the combatants.Al-Sharara, jointly owned by NOC, the Spanish group Repsol, Total of France, Austria's OMV and Norway's Statoilis produces 315,000 barrels per day, or nearly one third of Libya's oil output. It is located about 900 kilometres (560 miles) south of Tripoli and has frequently been the target of attacks and blockades by militias. NOC said production was not affected. Eight people were killed and 57 others injured in air raids which the government blamed on Khalifa Haftar's Libyan National Army (LNA). The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) has predicted further heavy rain over the coming days in northern Mozambique. Residents and relief workers in the country are confronting devastation wrought by Cyclone Kenneth, the strongest cyclone to ever hit Africa, which killed 38 people and destroyed thousands of homes.Roads have been washed away, fields submerged and many buildings wrecked by the storm, which came weeks after Cyclone Idai struck the Mozambican city of Beira, 1,000 kilometres (620 miles) to the south.Cyclone Kenneth made landfall late on Thursday in Cabo Delgado province, packing wind gusts of up to 220 kilometres per hour. Seven people died in a landslide in eastern DR Congo on Monday, bringing the death toll to 13 over the past three days, as torrential rain lashes the region, local officials said.Already on Friday, six people had been killed in Mahanga in the province of North Kivu. Among the material damage, six bridges, eight schools and 90 homes were swept away in the heavy rain, NGO workers said. The mountainous and densely-wooded region in the east of DR Congo is frequently hit by killer floods. Ugandan "explorer" 'Sir' Milton Allimadi made a chance discovery in London over the weekend during an excursion in the city. He spotted a mighty river that meanders across the UK capital and named it River Gulu, after a Ugandan city. The flow in question is actually River Thames. Sir Allimadi tweeted that he was happy that he had given the river a "proper name", perhaps seeking to balance the discovery of major landmarks in Africa by europeans. "I discovered the river you see behind me in London. I do not know what the natives call it but I gave it a proper name - River Gulu. Like Sir Samuel Baker, you can now call me Sir Milton," he tweeted.   Economists cite errant weather conditions and uncertainty over oil production. This could undermine victims seeking justice.