South Sudan Kiir invites rival to form unity government South Sudan President Salva Kiir has invited former deputy president Riek Machar to return to Khartoum by May 12 for the formation of a unity government. “The President asked Dr. Riek to come to Juba on or before the 12 of May so that the revitalized transitional government of national unity is formed,” the president's press secretary Ateny Wek Ateny told the local media in Juba. He said the invitation was made Dr Machar in Vatican during the spiritual retreat last week. Under a September peace deal the transitional government should be formed in May. However, the parties to the agreement have not yet met the implementation timeline of security arrangements in the past 8 month’s pre-transitional period. Mr Machar has requested for a further six-month delay fearing for his security. South Sudan seeks WTO membership South Sudan is now pursuing membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) that will open up access to capital and market for locally produced goods. Speaking to business community in Juba on Tuesday Mou Mou Athian, undersecretary in the Ministry of Trade and East African Affairs (EAC), said increased involvement in regional and global trade will help provide social and economic stability and improve security in the country after five years of conflict. "We need to actively open up and be connected to the rest of the world as precondition for jumpstarting as well as sustaining economic growth required to promote social and economic stability," he said. South Sudan joined the East African Community (EAC) in 2016 and has committed to reforms that attract investments and open up the market. Juba applied to join the WTO in 2015 and has received $6 million to enhance its capacity to access the global trading system. Algeria's head of Constitutional Council resigns amid protests President of the Algerian Constitutional Council Tayeb Belaiz resigned on Tuesday amid mass protests in the country demanding for his departure. "Belaiz notified the members of the Constitutional Council, during a meeting held Tuesday, that he presented his resignation to the interim president Abdelkader Bensalah," the council said in a statement. The council is overseeing presidential, parliamentary and local elections as well as a referendum. This follows two months of a political crisis caused by mass protests that forced former President Abdelaziz Bouteflika to step down on on April 2. Last Tuesday, Algeria's parliament named Bensalah, chairman of its upper house, as interim president. He has announced a presidential election for July 4 despite protesters demanding he steps down. Mozambique to hold donors' conference to discuss reconstruction after Idai Mozambique will organize a donors' conference in the city of Beira on May 30 to discuss reconstruction after the Idai disaster. The cyclone Idai hit the central region on tMarch 14, leaving more than 600 people dead and the city's infrastructure damaged. The minister of Public Works, Housing and Water Resources, João Machatine said the talks would focus on resources and gather knowledge in building of resilient infrastructure. "We have to incorporate resilient componentswhich is fundamental to adapt our country to the phenomenon caused by climate change," said Machatine The minister said the priority will be the reconstruction of schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and transmission lines. Tanzania arrests foreigner over smuggling of 47 tortoises Tanzanian authorities said on Tuesday they were holding an Egyptian national in connection with an attempt to smuggle 47 live tortoises out of the country. The authorities said the Egyptian was arrested on Sunday at the Zanzibar International Airport where he was in transit abroad. Mulhat Yusuf, the Zanzibar Aviation Authority public relations officer told a news conference that security officers at the airport discovered that a luggage belonging to the Egyptian had live tortoises. In Dec. 2018, Tanzanian police announced the seizure of 114 tortoises that were about to be smuggled to European countries and the United States through South Africa. The suspect was found with the tortoises packed in bags, while travelling to Tanzania's southern highland region of Mbeya from the lake zone region of Mwanza. East African MPs form food alliance Lawmakers from eastern African countries on Tuesday formed an alliance to support efforts in achieving food and nutrition targets as set out in a 2014 declaration. The Eastern Africa Parliamentarian Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition seeks to follow up on the eastern African governments' fulfillment of the commitments made by the African Union (AU) in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, to eradicate food insecurity and malnutrition by 2025. At the official launching of the alliance in northern Tanzanian safari capital of Arusha, Tanzanian National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai said the alliance was timely. "This requires innovative actions in terms of institutional environment, resource allocation, effective coordination and accountability," he said.   Kenya Airways announces that flight KQ 762 has been rescheduled. More than 8,000 children are still missing as tracers confront rough terrain.