Tanzania albinos say they fear for lives after exhumation Tanzanian albinos said Sunday they were living in fear of their lives after the remains of an albino buried four years ago were exhumed in what they said was a "bestial" and "barbaric" act. The Tanzanian Albino Society called on President John Magufuli to "intervene personally and denounce this bestial act and provide financial support for programmes aimed at eradicating this barbarism against albinos." In Tanzania and other sub-Saharan African countries, albinos' body parts are sought after for witchcraft practices because they are believed to enhance luck and wealth. Opposition leader urges people power to oust DR Congo president Martin Fayulu, who claims he was robbed of victory in the Democratic Republic of Congo's presidential election, on Sunday called for people power to drive President Felix Tshisekedi from power, an AFP journalist reported. Citing popular uprisings in Algeria and Sudan, he told a meeting of several thousand supporters in Kinshasa the Congolese could achieve the same thing. "This time, we have returned to call for and to obtain the resignation of Felix Tshisekedi," he said. "You, the people are stronger than any army in the world.” Nigeria gunmen kidnap foreign oil workers: security forces Gunmen in Nigeria's restive oil-rich south have attacked an oil rig, kidnapping a British, a Canadian and a Nigerian worker, security forces said Sunday. The violence is the latest in a long line of attacks in Nigeria's southern Rivers state, where kidnapping for ransom is rife. Half a dozen gunmen attacked the rig on Saturday in the Ogbele area of Rivers state, firing weapons as they stormed in, grabbing the three men and then heading off into the thick forest and swamps around. 13 wounded at Algeria water protest: security source Thirteen people were wounded Sunday when shots were fired during a demonstration in eastern Algeria to demand better access to drinking water, a security source said. The incident happened when an employee opened fire on dozens of protesters in front of the Youkous mineral water factory in the town of Hammamet, the source said. The official APS news agency said 13 wounded people were taken to hospital in Hammamet before police intervened to take control of the situation. Tensions have been high in the town since authorities granted the company the right to exploit and bottle the area's spring water. Four dead, 20 wounded in Tripoli air raids: unity govt Air raids by the self-styled Libyan National Army against the capital on Saturday night killed four people and wounded 20 others, Libya's internationally recognised unity government said. But Amin al-Hachemi, a spokesman for the Government of National Accord's healthy ministry, on Sunday warned that "the death toll could increase in the coming hours". A pro-GNA military source said the victims were civilians. Mozambique braces for violent floods after Cyclone Kenneth Tens of thousands of people in the far north of Mozambique are bracing for violent flooding as torrential rain pushes up water levels, after the death and devastation wrought by Cyclone Kenneth. The first floods have already been seen in some parts of Pemba, the capital of Cabo Delgado province, as well as in surrounding areas, lashed by heavy rain since daybreak, AFP journalists reported. Fields on the outskirts of the city that had been lush green just a day earlier were now brown with floodwater. Son of French hostage in Mali denounces govt inaction The son of an elderly French woman abducted in Mali has accused Paris of refusing to talk to her abductors, in comments published Sunday that were disputed by French authorities. Armed jihadists abducted Sophie Petronin on December 24, 2016, in Gao, northern Mali, where she ran a charity helping orphans. Her son, Sebastien Chadaud-Petronin, told the Sunday newspaper Journal Du Dimanche that French officials had rejected an offer from the abductors, which he had received when he visited Mali in December. He said the French foreign ministry had taken "The decision to sacrifice my mother." S.African hostage in Syria still alive after two years: charity A South African charity said Sunday it had received video evidence that a freelance photographer kidnapped in Syria was alive, over two years after he was captured. Shiraaz Mahomed was kidnapped on January 10, 2017, travelling to the Turkish border from a hospital supported by the Gift of the Givers charity in the Syrian town of Darkouch, 100 kilometres (60 miles) west of Aleppo. “Gift of the Givers has received proof of life for journalist Shiraaz Mahomed,” said the charity's head Imtiaz Sooliman in a message broadcast on social networks. Benin voters boycott polls with only one choice People in Benin on Sunday boycotted in large numbers parliamentary polls with no opposition candidate to choose from, as rights groups warned of a crackdown on basic freedoms. As national radio stations pleaded for voters to "fulfil their duty as citizens" and elect 83 new members of parliament -- choosing from two parties both allied to President Patrice Talon -- the internet was cut. The small West African state was long held up as a model for democracy, but the country's main opposition parties were effectively barred from fielding candidates by tough new eligibility rules. Instead, they asked their supporters to protest by boycotting the polls.   President Edgar Lungu is enjoying a following of "jogging guests" on his routine Saturday morning Some community leaders are demanding money and sex in exchange for food - HRW.