The Sankara Nairobi hotel has an artistic flair with its unique African paintings and sculptures placed throughout the hotel. And now they have recently renovated the executive rooms of the Sankara Wing. Situated on the seventh floor, the new wing has a bird’s eye view of the bustling suburb of Westlands. And the sound-proofing means that the noise from the street doesn’t make it into the room. The rooms have a bright, airy feel with floor-to-ceiling windows, and colour schemes of beige, walnut brown, cream and stone. A vase of bright orange roses added a touch of brilliance to the room I stayed in recently. The work desk by the windows looks over the commercial zone of Westlands. I preferred to sit on the comfortable king bed with big, fluffy pillows. If these are not to your liking, you can request others from the pillow menu that has options such as goose down, neck supporting, anti-allergenic or lavender aromatherapy pillows. During turn-down, you get gifts of animal carvings. Complimentary shoe polish, plush bathrobes and body care supplies dot the marble-floored bathroom. And there is a generous selection of courtesy sweets, nuts, macaroon biscuits and chocolate bars with dried fruit. The spacious bathroom has a separate rain shower, toilet closet and bathtub, and it seemed large because there is only a glass partition wall between it and the bedroom. For added privacy, you can pull down the blind over the glass wall. Also located in the Sankara Wing is a new presidential suite. The two-bedroom suite has corner windows, a spacious sitting and dining room and a pantry. The entire seventh floor can be blocked off for an entourage of guests. President Emmanuel Macron of France was the very first guest to stay there last month. Another perk of staying in the Sankara Wing is all-day access to the exclusive Sankara Lounge, a serene and private space to work, dine or meet with friends. Early evening is a nice time to spend in the Lounge, appreciating the complimentary beverages and appetisers while watching the sun go down over the city.   Protest leaders want a civilian council that would form a transitional govt to rule Sudan. President Salva Kiir urges opposition leader Riek Machar to return home "urgently".