Sudan army to state position on Omar al-Bashir’s rule The Sudanese army was Thursday planning to make "an important announcement", state media said, after months of protests against longtime leader President Omar al-Bashir. Thousands of Khartoum residents chanted "the regime has fallen" as they flooded the area around army headquarters where protesters have held an unprecedented sit-in now in its sixth day. "The Sudanese army will issue an important statement soon. Wait for it," the state television anchor said, without giving further details. The protests, which erupted in December, have become the biggest challenge yet to Bashir's three decades of iron-fisted rule.  South Sudan leaders emerge from Vatican retreat South Sudan President Salva Kiir and former vice president Riek Machar are expected to rededicate themselves to the peace process after a two-day retreat at the Vatican. The two leaders were hosted by Pope Francis and the archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby. The retreat was aimed at facilitating “encounter and reconciliation, in a spirit of respect and trust” for those who have “the responsibility to work for a future of peace and prosperity for the South Sudanese people,” Vatican spokesman Alessandro Gisotti said on Tuesday. The leaders are expected to make a statement Thursday evening after which they will be presented with bibles inscribed with the message: “Seek that which unites. Overcome that which divides."  Algeria polls set for JulyAlgeria will go to the polls on July 4, the presidency announced as demonstrators kept up protests against the ruling elite following veteran leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika's resignation. Algerian interim President Abdelkader Bensalah on Tuesday said his top mission is working to overcome the current political crisis and pave way for the election of a new president as soon as possible. Algeria's state run and private media broadcasted the first speech of Bensalah to the nation as he hailed both the people and the security forces for behaving 'responsibly and professionally' since the protest across the country started on Feb. 22. He also thanked the support of the military institution while "sticking to the Constitution as the only passage to overcome the current political crisis." UN Security Council to discuss Libya conflictThe battle for Libya's capital intensifies as the UN Security Council prepares to meet to discuss the crisis gripping the North African country, where armed rivals are locked in a deadly power struggle. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called Wednesday for a ceasefire in Libya to prevent all-out fighting for control of Tripoli. "It's still time to stop," Guterres told reporters after briefing the UN Security Council in a closed session. "It's still time for a ceasefire to take place, for a cessation of hostilities to take place, and to avoid the worst, which would be a dramatic bloody battle for Tripoli."  Egypt denies crash plane was faulty Egypt on Wednesday denied that technical failures caused EgyptAir flight 804 to crash on its way to Cairo from Pairs three years ago, killing all 66 people on board. Forty Egyptians and 15 French nationals were on board the Airbus A320 when it crashed into the Mediterranean on May 19, 2016 leaving no survivors. "The claims made by some foreign newspapers were incorrect" Egypt's civil aviation ministry said, citing a report by a French daily about "EgyptAir's shortfalls... in the technical handling" of the aircraft. Egypt's aviation minister had initially said a terrorist attack was more likely to have brought down the plane. France's aviation safety agency has said the aircraft transmitted automated messages indicating smoke in the cabin and a fault in the flight control unit minutes before losing contact.  South Sudan to amend 4 security bills to boost peace deal implementation South Sudan's constitutional body has submitted amendments to four security sector-related bills to the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs in a bid to facilitate the smooth implementation of the revitalized peace deal. Gichira Kibara, chairperson of the National Constitutional Amendment Committee, said the East African country is in the process of undertaking extensive security sector reform, noting that the submission of these bills is a milestone in the implementation of the peace agreement. The four bills submitted on Tuesday are Sudan People's Liberation Act, the Police Service Act, the Prisons Service Act, and the Wildlife Service Act. Paulino Wanawilla Unango, South Sudan's minister of justice and constitutional affairs, said legislation of the bills would be expedited. In February, South Sudan's peace monitors said fidelity to the rule of law and governance was key to achieving durable peace in the country.   Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir has been removed from power and detained by the army. Consultations are under way to set up a transitional council to run the country.