Supporters of Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine on Monday clashed with police after authorities cancelled his Easter music shows in Kampala, Arua and Lira. Tension ensued after police blocked a procession led by Bobi Wine at his One Love Beach in Busabala. Bobi Wine was arrested and whisked away by a police van to an unknown destination. Police forcefully opened the car the MP was driving, breaking his window, and pulled him out. However, singer Nubian Li, who was with Bobi Wine in the car, was not arrested. Makindye West MP Allan Ssewanyana fainted and was carried by his supporters to a waiting car. Popular music events promoter Andrew Mukasa of Bajjo Events and Abbey Musinguzi alias Abtex, who are at centre of organising Bobi Wine’s Easter concerts, were also arrested. The two were arrested on Monday morning at the first police checkpoint at One Love Beach and briefly detained in a police van before they were whisked away.   The assistant Inspector General of Police, Mr Assuman Mugenyi directed police commanders to block all planned Bobi Wine music concerts in a letter dated April 19, 2019, copied to Abtex Promotions, the organiser of Easter Monday show; Kampala Metropolitan Police Commander and all regional police commanders. Mr Mugenyi says the commanders must comply because the musician has always disregarded the set and agreed upon guidelines for such activities. Last year, police blocked the musician’s Kyalenga Album launch at Namboole Stadium. Attempts to stage the show at his One Love Beach in Busabala, Wakiso District were also thwarted. In response, Bobi Wine said they will not sit and watch as their rights continue to be violated. "We shall resist this impunity," Bobi Wine said in a Sunday social media post. He said the latest police move brings the number of blocked concerts across the country to 124 since October 2017. He wondered why all other entertainers are not required to fulfil any of the police requirements and their shows have not been stopped.   Kenya has attracted the largest number of investors, mostly in financial services and sugar