Tanzanian Sungi Mlengeya is carving a niche for herself in the art world with her “less is more” style. In her most recent works, Sungi’s portraits of contemporary women stand out with their dark complexions against white backgrounds. The elegant, ebony-skinned women have strong expressions, full lips, high cheekbones and expressive eyes. She uses minimal colours in her portraiture, mostly in black, brown, white and the occasional bright colour. Some may find this style of painting unengaging, but by eliminating unnecessary trimmings, there is more focus on the subject. There is also a clever use of negative space. Abundance is a side view of a black woman, with her head wrap formed by the white space of the canvas. The picture Sarah is of a dark woman posing with her head tilted, eyes closed and a contemplative expression. She wears a white, sleeveless dress, formed by the unpainted canvas. BOLD The Bond shows the back of the head of a bald woman, the bright yellow scarf around her neck standing out against her dark skin and white background. The side portrait of the woman in the painting Missy almost resembles actress Lupita Nyong’o, with chocolate brown skin and almond shaped eyes, painted against a sunny yellow backdrop. Sungi’s paintings are beautiful in their stark simplicity. In other paintings, Sungi incorporates thick straight lines to form elements such as clothing, the person’s hair or outlines of the upper body. Earlier portraits feature colourful flowers and leaves, perhaps influenced by her background. Sungi grew up in the Serengeti, studied finance then worked as a banker before taking up fine art on a fulltime basis in 2018. She says her art is inspired by nature, her surroundings and random items. Her studio is in Arusha and she held her first exhibition in Kenya at Nairobi’s Railway Museum last month.   His short art career spurred generations of Tinga Tinga artists. Leaders impressed with the progress and opportunities made byBelt and Road Initiative. The multiple ownership of lines from the same telco has been linked to fraud and theft.