If you haven't made Easter plans yet, it's not too late. Whatever your passion, you can find an activity to fulfil it. If you like wildlife and adventure, you can visit national parks. The Nairobi National Park offers a great outing. Go on a game drive or take a walk on the wild side at the Safari Walk. You may spot the endangered black rhino, lions, leopards, cheetahs, hyenas, buffaloes, giraffes and diverse birdlife with over 400 species recorded. Take a picnic basket, or camp at any of the three camp sites. There is also a trail for hikers. In Rwanda, Volcanoes National Park in Musanze is the perfect place to see the endangered mountain gorilla. The park is also home to the golden monkey, spotted hyena, buffalo, elephant, duiker, and bushbuck. In northern Tanzania, Lake Manyara National Park beckons with hot springs, waterfalls and a range of wild animals—monkeys, antelopes, zebras, hippos and crocodiles, buffalo, giraffe and lots of elephants. Lake Manyara National Park is also known for its tree-climbing lions, that can be seen sleeping off the heat of the day on a branch instead of a shady spot on the ground like other lions. Speaking of tree-climbing lions, you can also see them at the Ishasha Plains of Queen Elizabeth Park in Uganda. Here, lions spend the day lounging on fig and acacia trees. Another great place to lounge is at the beach. Take a break from the hectic city life, and treat yourself to cooling sea breezes and sandy beaches. Kenya’s Diani Beach, located 30 kilometres south of Mombasa, in Kwale County, was voted Africa’s leading beach destination last year, for the fifth year in a row. The long stretch of white sandy beach and lush forest is ideal for families, honeymooners, party people and water sports enthusiasts. Go sailing in a dhow, snorkelling, deep-sea diving, paragliding, sky diving and swimming in the ocean. Another Easter destination is Zanzibar Island (Unguja), known for the historical Stone Town and some of the most beautiful beaches. Stone Town, a Unesco world heritage site, is culturally rich with palaces, forts and cobbled narrow streets. For beautiful beaches, you’ll be spoilt for choice with Nungwi, Kendwa, Matemwe, Bwejuu and Paje. For those who play, enjoy a game of golf at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa. Considered the best 18-hole course in Uganda, it lies on the banks of Lake Victoria. The views of the lake and its surroundings are soft on the eye with ample bird life. If you choose to remain in the city, you don’t have to stay at home. Treat yourself and your family to a luxury Easter break at the Villa Rosa Kempinski in Nairobi, where you can enjoy an Easter Sunday brunch. The Kigali Serena will have an extravagant Easter brunch for the whole family at Milima restaurant, live music and photo opportunities with the Easter bunny and an Easter egg hunt for children. For some contemplation on the Holy Week, you can catch an Easter service at your nearest place of worship.   New military ruler vows to "uproot" the regime of ousted president Omar al-Bashir and its Ex-rebel says they need another six months before forming a unity government.