Winnie Ngumi, an architect by profession, decided to venture into business immediately after graduation in 2002 and co-founded Space and Style Ltd. A graduate of the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, she was determined to overcome all odds and succeed in the male-dominated building and construction sector rather than conceptualising ideas only. As a fresh graduate, she funded the business through initial customer deposits, pre-payments and the support of suppliers who offered her credit. She has not looked back or regretted her decision to date. In hindsight, her decision showed foresight, considering that last year the government of Kenya came up with the Big Four Agenda, making housing one of the pillars of the economy and going flat out to build and improve quality of housing and expand home ownership. Ngumi’s vision is therefore in sync with the national vision and her passion is to transform the construction and housing industry by bringing in compliance with health and safety standards, driving innovation and manufacturing, improving the quality of housing and training and mentoring women in the sector. She knew the only way to do this was not by being practising architect but by venturing into business as an entrepreneur, industrialist, building specialist and an architect all rolled into one. This has seen Space and Style emerge as a leading distributor of specialised building materials offering roofing, flooring and structural solutions. And as Kenya implements the affordable housing programme that seeks to build 500,000 new homes in five years, Space and Style is in the process of setting up a $15 million factory on the outskirts of Nairobi to cater for the expected growing demand for building materials. She spoke to Njiraini Muchira on her passion. ----------------------------------------- What’s your off-duty passion? Developing a conscientious future generation, which I consider the main purpose of life. I do this by spending a lot of time with family and friends, and the more time I spend with them engaging in all sorts of activities, the more we develop a stronger bond that keeps me grounded. What would you have been if you were not doing what you are doing today? If I wasn't running Space and Style, I would be a practising architect. This is what I studied at the university. I find buildings and space fascinating. Architecture allows you to go into the mind of a person and create outputs that influences the minds of others. Architects can influence the psychology of a society and leave lifetime legacies. They can ultimately live a life much larger and longer than their own mortality through the buildings that they conceptualise. What signifies your personal style? I consider myself a traditionalist at heart because I like structure and symmetry, and classic patterns and colours. I prefer simple cuts and shapes. How do you manage your wardrobe? I don’t really have a plan or theme. I prefer practical and comfortable clothes. I tend to buy my clothes in the same stores here and when I travel as I can make quick decisions within limited time and I know what to expect of the quality. I choose items that I can wear to almost any event during the day and sometimes evening without having to change. While in East Africa, where are you most likely to spend your Saturday afternoon? At home in Nairobi or at a restaurant with a beautiful outdoor garden. We are blessed with all year round beautiful weather, that we sometimes take for granted. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? I love many places because for different reasons. But If I had to choose I would go with our beautiful safari lodges. Any of them, as long as they are clean, comfortable and have excellent food. There is something really relaxing about focusing on where to find the wild animals in a game drive. It is like being in another world, free from the reality of our normal lives. The clean air, peace and quiet does a lot to rejuvenate the mind, body and spirit. Do you have a must-visit list? Yes. I haven’t been to South America. I would love to visit Mexico to learn more about the Aztecs, go to Peru to experience the Inca civilisation, go to Chile to see their historical landmarks and their vineyards, pass by Argentina to experience their culture and end up in a Brazilian restaurant for their beef. In East Africa, I would love to go gorilla trekking in Rwanda, and stay at the Bisate Lodge. Which is East Africa’s greatest strength? The location. East Africa is geographically the hub of Africa and you can access most parts of continent and the rest of the world with ease. In addition, I think the region has a lot of untapped potential and investment opportunities abound. The Africa Rising story cannot be told without emphasis on East Africa’s strategic importance. What is your best collection? I like classical music but I don’t really keep a collection. With technology, I can find music at the touch of a button. I enjoy decorating so my home is littered with a collection of knickknacks and art from a lot of the places I have visited. I have a big collection of fridge magnets from the various cities I have visited. What’s the most thoughtful gift you’ve received? Last year's office end-of-year party, the employees awarded me a special plaque that validated the effort I have put into the business since its inception. I will always treasure it. Earlier on my birthday, my children gave me a book of handmade vouchers. Each page is a voucher for example a hug, breakfast in bed, a car wash, sleeping in. I have been using the vouchers very wisely. What big read have you done recently? The Goal by Eliyahu M. Goldratt. I recently completed the Stanford SEED business transformation programme and this book was part of the course material. This business novel opens up your mind on issues relating to business changes, challenges, improvement and dynamics. It was particularly relevant to me because I am leading my business through a process of change. Which film has impacted you the most? I enjoyed The Tudors, which is actually a historical television series based on the true life story of King Henry VIII of England. He was an accomplished yet very controversial leader and there is a lot to be learnt from his leadership. What is never missing from your fridge? Frozen and fresh mukimo, the traditional Kikuyu food of mashed potatoes, green vegetables and grains.   Decision prompted by increased competition for resources in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. Lack of political will remains at the centre of the funding.