Western Kenya’s most famous landmark is Lake Victoria, shared by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Known to the Luo people of Kenya as Nam Lolwe, it was not until the arrival in 1858 of explorer John Speke that it came to be known to the rest of the world as Lake Victoria. As far as tourism is concerned, Kenya’s western circuit has more than its fair share of attractions. To the north is Mount Elgon that straddles the Uganda-Kenya border and if you get to the caldera, you can have one foot in each country. Ancient and weathered, this extinct volcano is said to be 24 million years (compared with Lake Victoria’s half a million years) and has been stunningly chiselled by the strong winds. Found on Mt Elgon is the famous elephant-made tunnel called Kitum. The animals have been coming here for millennia to scrape for salt from the walls of the tunnel, digging it further inside the rock face. However a few years ago huge boulders tumbled down and blocked part of the entrance, leaving an opening only big enough for humans to squeeze in through — one is advised to always have a guide and a strong torch. The cave entrance also has a waterfall, keeping the interior cool as you wander down the nature trail. But for an even better adventure, you can climb to the caldera and Koitobos, a flat-topped basalt column which is the highest peak on the Kenyan side at 13,852 feet. The path is lined with alpine plants and flora only found on Mt Elgon. Once off the mountain, drive up north to Kenya’s smallest national park which is a unique swamp. Measuring 2.9 square kilometres, it is home to the critically endangered swamp antelope called the sitatunga. Some 70 years ago, the sitatunga was found in the swamps around Lake Victoria and the rivers that flowed in from (the Kagera in Rwanda and the Nzoia in Kenya) and out of the Nile). With its water-resistant coat and splayed hooves, the sitatunga led a pretty comfortable existence until humans cleared the swamps hunted it for its tender meat that it found itself without a habitat—save for Saiwa and a few other glades. If you spend the night in the treehouse above the swamp and you will be rewarded with a sighting of the shy sitatunga. During the day, it hides in the heavy thickets and grassy swamp. A 40-minute drive away from Saiwa, is the famous Kapenguria town, made famous by Kenya’s colonial government when they chose to imprison and try then Kenya’s most famous political prisoners, later dubbed the Kapenguria Six, well away from the masses at the sparsely-populated Kapenguria. The Kapenguria Six—Jomo Kenyatta, Bildad Kaggia, Kung’u Karumba, Fred Kubai, Paul Ngei and Ramogi Achieng’ Oneko who were incarcerated and tried here between 1952 and 1953. Kenya’s first state of emergency was announced in 1952, ushering in a brutal campaign of arrests, kangaroo trials and full military crackdown on those clamouring for freedom from the yoke of colonialism. The cells of the freedom fighters are now a treasured museum, and displays documents from the trial. The galleries also showcase the local Pokot people’s culture as well as forest snakes like the Gabon and rhinoceros vipers. On leaving Kapenguria, take a drive south and end up in Kakamega for a visit to the Kakamega Forest, which is one of the few patches of tropical rainforest left in Kenya, and treat yourself to a few nights at the Rondo Retreat and on to Kisumu, on the shores of Lake Victoria.   Yemen, DR Congo, Afghanistan and Syria are among worst hit. They say they have watched with alarm the deterioration of rights over the past two years.