Sometimes the simple things are best. For simplicity aids clarity and it is certainly more memorable. The reverse is true as well. First think of the cave paintings found throughout the world that date from 30,000 years ago; animal outlines drawn in charcoal, then coloured with red or yellow ochre. Horses, bison and bulls, they were alive when drawn and live today — on the wall and in the mind — and are as fresh as if they had been created yesterday. Now think of the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. I recall a sense of its overall greatness and a breathtaking mix of soft blues, muscular ivory figures and red robes, but the details have become hazy. I would have to refer to photographs to tell you which episode from the Bible was in which section of what is commonly held to be one of the greatest works of art ever produced. If art is ultimately about communication, Prehistoric Man has got Renaissance Man in a vice. Next, a mighty bound through time and space takes us to the Banana Hill Art Gallery to the west of Nairobi. No Michelangelo; no men in skins with burnt sticks. But yet more evidence that simplicity wins the day. It comes in an exhibition by artists from the Three Stones Studio, based in Nairobi at Kahawa West off Thika Road. Previously they have collaborated in installations at the Goethe Institut and the National Museums of Kenya but, although they have been together for around four years, this is their first group show of drawings and paintings. SIMPLICITY IN ART The four — Simon Maina, Minus Maina (no relation), John Kamicha, and Dan Mwihuungi — are independent artists brought together mainly by convenience but all sharing a determination to expose what Simon Maina described as the inequalities in society. His interest is to uncover the fault lines and show how we try to cover them up. Maina with his 10 paintings demonstrates the value of simplicity in art; in one case by default. That case is Kintakunte, a large roaring canvas packed with such icons as masks and rich in colours. But it was too heavy a feast for me and it gave a confused eye nowhere to rest. In contrast, a couple of his small painted heads were clear and concise. Corrupt Thinking was sketched with wood ash on a rough piece of board, crudely tacked onto a supporting frame. A background wash of lemon projected the head forward and with fierce vertical and horizontal lines — two abrupt slashes — across the face and with one side of the head beginning to melt away as though from an acid attack, it revealed the disfiguring effect of corruption on the body politic as well as the individual. Older Wiser, a head framed by the marks left by peeling off masking tape, was of an elder, one eye obscured while his remaining eye pierced the viewer with his wisdom, gained through experience. The delightfully named Minus Maina (his real name is Shadrack but he could have gone for Maina Minor, Maina Major or even, like a character from Catch 22, Major Maina) is working on a series called Witnesses and Observers; highlighting the effects of life’s inequalities. Here he shows just five mixed media paintings, mostly small and vigorous and made with passion. THE MOMENT John Kamicha, son of the painter Zacharia Mbutha, is probably the best known of the group, having exhibited at major galleries including the Alliance Française (where one of his telling collages was banned in 2014 for blasphemy) and the One-Off gallery in Rosslyn, Nairobi. The oldest member of the Three Stones Studio in his early 40s, he is currently working on two series; 100 Years and Kahigaini (Kikuyu for “On a Stone.”) In 100 Years, Kamicha is examining the plight of East African solders who served with the British in the two world wars, from 1914-18 and 1939-45, and who, he says, went unrewarded for their service. Kahigaini considers the wider meaning of On a Stone, which refers to people without work who are waiting for something to turn up. In this exhibition, the 10 works he offers include the familiar Kamicha metaphor of man as beast (usually a hyena) in two striking takes of We are all animals using a loaded, painterly technique combined with collage. The most literal of the artists is Dan Mwihuungi, who presents nine works to demonstrate his concern about the plight of women and children. Non-specific but elegantly drawn, most feature the interplay of two figures and they make moving double portraits even to a viewer unaware of their message. For me the most effective of his works, however, was a charcoal drawing on canvas of a single figure; a young woman staring out at us with an expression that contained a strange mixture of desperation and acceptance. Called The Moment (Of loss? Of realisation?) only half the face is completed — perhaps a metaphor for the woman’s plight — and the contrast between the space left unmarked and the intervals between the rhythmic searching of the artist’s lines and the sonorous shading add immensely to the overall power of the piece. Again, simplicity wins through.   Better to put down the brushes to recharge, rather than become vacuous and trite. Leaders impressed with the progress and opportunities made byBelt and Road Initiative. The multiple ownership of lines from the same telco has been linked to fraud and theft.