Money transfers to sub-Sahara Africa grew by 10 per cent to $46 billion in 2018, according to the World Bank. The bank projects the record remittances could become the largest source of external financing this year but warned gains were being undermined by high fees charged by money transfer operators. Among the development goals set by the United Nations in 2015 was reducing the cost of remittances to three percent. However, banks on average were charging 11 percent in the first quarter of 2019 while post offices charged seven percent. Overall, migrant workers and others sent home an estimated $529 billion to low- and middle-income countries last year, up 9.6 percent from the year before, which had also been a record. Such money transfers should hit $550 billion this year, making them the largest source of external finance, according to the bank. Money transfers to South Asia grew 12 per cent to $131 billion, those to East Asia by seven per cent to $143 billion. Excluding China, the remittances amounted to $462 billion, significantly more than foreign direct investment over the period, which stood at $344 billion. Sudanese security forces fired tear gas early Tuesday at thousands of anti-government protesters who had been demonstrating outside army headquarters for a third straight night, but soldiers intervened firing in the air, witnesses said. Thousands of protesters have massed at the Khartoum complex since Saturday, urging the military to back them in demanding the resignation of President Omar al-Bashir and the formation of a transitional government. The army said it ‘understood’ the reasons for the demonstrations and was not against the ‘aspirations’ of citizens but would not let the country ‘fall into chaos.’ UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday appealed to all sides in Sudan to avoid violence urging President Omar al-Bashir government to "create a conducive environment for a solution to the current situation and to promote an inclusive dialogue." UN chief Antonio Guterres on Monday appealed for an immediate halt to fighting in Libya, after strongman Khalifa Haftar's forces claimed an airstrike on Tripoli's only functioning airport.Thousands have fled violence in the capital city, according to the United Nations, since Haftar launched a surprise assault last week which has left dozens dead.Secretary-General Guterres "urges the immediate halt of all military operations in order to de-escalate the situation and prevent an all-out conflict," said a UN statement late Monday. He "strongly condemns the military escalation and ongoing fighting in and around Tripoli, including the aerial attack today by a Libyan National Army (LNA) aircraft against Mitiga airport." Algerian lawmakers are set to confirm an interim replacement for Abdelaziz Bouteflika on Tuesday after the ailing president resigned last week in the face of massive protests.The constitution stipulates that the speaker of the upper house of parliament -- currently 77-year-old Abdelkader Bensalah -- take the presidential reins for the next 90 days.But with protesters demanding an overhaul of the political system, the interim leader's identity may not be a foregone conclusion. Algerians are demanding regime stalwarts – known as 3B- be excluded from the political transition. They are Bensalah, head of the constitutional council Tayeb Belaiz and prime minister Noureddine Bedoui. El Moudjahid, a pro-government daily, said in an editorial on Sunday a consensus candidate acceptable to both the state and the people be found but army chief General Ahmed Gaid Salah insists Bouteflika's succession must adhere strictly to the constitution. A boat headed for market laden with merchandise and vendors capsized in the Niger River in Mali, claiming about a dozen lives, authorities said Monday. The victims had been on their way Sunday to a weekly market in Markala, in central Mali, where people from surrounding villages sell and buy goods. The boat sank about five kilometres (3.1 miles) from its destination, the transport ministry said in a statement, blaming overloading. The ministry spoke of nine dead and six survivors, but a Markala official said more had lost their lives, including a child of about six months. In October, 26 people died when two boats capsized on the Niger River near Timbuktu. Five young men died in fitness tests at a recruitment drive by the Guinean army at the weekend, security sources and hospital workers said Monday. The five, aged from 23 to 32, collapsed at or near the finishing line of an eight-kilometre (five mile) run. Candidates must finish in the top section of the run and then do press-ups, abdominal crunches and knowledge tests in order to be included among the 8,400 shortlisted candidates. Unemployment and poverty in the West African state are chronic, and positions in the armed forces, police or customs, can be 10-times oversubscribed. The deaths occurred at military camps in the eastern town of Mandiana, a second in the southern town of N'Zerekore, and the three others occurred at Kankan, also in the east, the sources said. A South African court ruled Monday that a Mozambican ex-finance minister held since December on a US arrest warrant can be extradited to either the United States or his home country. Michael Chang, 63, was arrested at Johannesburg's main airport on December 29 over alleged involvement in fraudulent loans to Mozambican state firms worth $2 billion. Magistrate William Schutte ruled that "there is evidence that Manuel Chang has committed the crimes he is charged with and that all conditions are met so he can be tried in the United States". The charges against Chang relate to loans taken out by Maputo when he was head of treasury between 2005 and 2015. The money was allegedly used to secretly buy a tuna-fishing fleet and surveillance ships. Zimbabwe next month will start paying partial compensation to white commercial farmers whose properties were seized nearly 20 years ago under Robert Mugabe's land reforms, the government said Monday. In a statement, the finance and agriculture ministries said they had budgeted 53 million Zimbabwean dollars ($18 million) in payments to "former farm owners affected by the land reform programme and who are in financial distress." More than 4,000 of the country's 4,500 white farmers were stripped of their land under former president Mugabe's highly controversial land seizures. Critics blame the evictions for a collapse in agricultural production that forced Africa's one-time bread basket to become dependent on imported food to feed its population.   Political initiatives have helped to boost development and investor confidence. Import cargo rose steadily from 6.5 million tonnes in 2017 to 7.4 million tonnes last year.