The finest painting in one solo exhibition in Nairobi right now is a tribute piece to another artist from another time, another place. The living Nigerian painter, sculptor and teacher Akinyemi Ajibade is clearly a huge admirer of the Hungarian painter, sculptor and designer Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, who lives only through his art and teaching. He died in 1946. Ajibade’s painting Nagy’s Songs of Wisdom is a taut, well-balanced and beautifully coloured homage to Nagy’s multifaceted talent. It glows on a pillar within the Polka Dot Art Gallery in Karen, Nairobi, where Ajibade is offering 21 paintings, all acrylic on canvas, in his exhibition Shapes of Things to Come. Moholy-Nagy, founder of Constructivism and later a leading light of Bauhaus teaching, was fascinated by the interaction of space, time and light. He used abstract geometric compositions and revelled in the then new technology of transparent Plexiglass, creating lasting works that grace most of the world’s major galleries and museums. As a teacher at the Institute of Design in Chicago he influenced the mainstream of 20th century American art. He would have got on like a house on fire with Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking, approaching the same mysteries from a different angle, and you can see why Ajibade, who teaches art at an international school in Nairobi, is so enamoured of him. But love is not always enough. There has to be originality as well as a keen eye for your source; your starting point. And on this showing, Ajibade is an artist in transition. It is as though he has developed a style based on the appearance of paintings by Nagy and the Constructivists without finding their soul. Ajibade’s paintings, apart from the abstract Nagy homage, fall into two camps—townscapes and the figurative. His townscapes are confidently composed with arithmetical precision and subtle colouring, their centres accented with diamonds of light creating both energy and suspense. There again, buildings do lend themselves to sharply defined lines. It is by applying a similar style to his figure painting, that his difficulties begin. The Cubists and the Futurists were convincing with their sharply outlined figures and the zig-zagging or stacking of fragmented planes, but Ajibade still has some way to go. What he has produced, at least in the 15 or so figurative works on show, are frankly ponderous exercises in stylisation featuring bright juxtaposed triangles, trapezoids and other odd shapes of hard-edged colour. The figure drawing itself is acceptable enough; but the fragmentation, instead of being fundamental to an examination of the figures, is a designer’s tic, enclosed within the normal anatomical form, while the backgrounds look like shattered glass. It is as though the body were outwardly fine but suffering from some inner affliction. I do not think this is a metaphor for tormented souls within bodies superficially at peace, but rather the more mundane matter of style over substance. None of this would matter if it were not for Ajibade’s avowed interest in Moholy-Nagy. After all, these figurative paintings are pleasant enough decorations that would add cheer to a wall. But once you have set the bar so high, you really do have to vault over it, or take a fall. If you like the idea of a geometrical approach to figurative painting then look too at the works of Kenya’s Beth Kimwele, now based in studios off Marula Lane, in Karen—just a kilometre or so from the Polka Dot—who demonstrates how to chop up the picture plane with sensitivity and purpose. Another artist who likes angles as sharp as those of a Harlequin costume is Vincent Shikuku, currently showing 11 paintings at the Banana Hill Art Centre, across the sweep of small townships to the west of Nairobi. Shikuku’s 11 pieces are by far the largest contribution to the gallery’s current exhibition, African Forms, which shows 35 paintings by 14 artists — plus a couple of thousand more on the racks and in the storerooms. I can think of few other artists than Vincent Shikuku who attempt to copy so faithfully Vincent van Gogh’s distinctive brushstrokes, strong line and vivid colours. They account for roughly a third of Shikuku’s output, in paintings such as My Best Friend and The Nap. Yet he has two other clear styles on show here. One, unfortunately, is a sort of sub-Peter Elungat faux Pre-Raphaelitism, in his hands giving us orange-faced women with teeny heads and richly painted voluminous gowns. It is his third style, easily his most successful, that is relevant here. Big, bold and featuring a bright palette of oranges, reds and assertive greens, Mothers Joy and Weekend Ride are prime examples. There is something of the circus about them and they amply repay Shikuku’s abundant energy. However, by far the finest painting in African Forms is by Shikuku’s fellow Kenyan Martin Kamuyu. Called Cost Sharing, it shows a cow still suckling her calf being milked by a pensive woman in a village clearing.   With its clear drawing, clean composition and the milkmaid’s pale blue dress singing against the preponderant caramel tones, it is a delight and would provide pleasure for years. I would much prefer that Kamuyu’s quiet celebrations of village life were one of the true shapes of things to come.   Decision prompted by increased competition for resources in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. Lack of political will remains at the centre of the funding.