Angola President João Lourenço calls for more Russian Investment Unity test for Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta in State of the Nation Address  Preliminary Ethiopian Airline crash report released The crew of the Ethiopian Airlines plane that crashed last month killing 157 people, repeatedly followed procedures recommended by Boeing, but were unable to regain control of the jet, the Ethiopian transport minister said Thursday. "The crew performed all the procedures repeatedly provided by the manufacturer but was not able to control the aircraft," said Dagmawit Moges, unveiling results of the preliminiary probe into the crash. She said the report recommends "the aircraft flight control system shall be reviewed by the manufacturer." The preliminary report comes as the Federal Aviation Administration announced a new review of the 737 MAX and as the head of Boeing joined a test flight designed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the company's proposed fix.  Nigeria's opposition party retains key oil state of Rivers Nigeria's main opposition party has retained control of the key oil-producing state of Rivers, according to official results from a vote marred by violence and delay. Incumbent governor Nyesom Wike, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was re-elected for a second term after beating his main rival Biokpomabo Awara, of the African Alliance Congress (AAC),  the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said late on Wednesday. Awara -- a relative unknown -- was backed by President Muhammadu Buhari's ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), which was unable to field candidates due to a court ruling. Rivers is always a key battleground for the parties because of the lucrative oil and gas sector that is largely based in the southern delta region. Uganda hunt for kidnapped US tourist enters third day Ugandan security forces scoured dense bush on Thursday in the hunt for a US tourist and her safari guide who were kidnapped by gunmen in a national park. "The operation to rescue the tourist is still ongoing," Uganda's tourism minister, Godfrey Kiwanda, told AFP on Thursday morning. Four kidnappers stopped a group of tourists at gunpoint around dusk on Tuesday as they drove through the Queen Elizabeth National Park on safari to see wild animals. Police said the kidnappers are demanding a ransom of $500,000 (445,000 euros) for the release of the pair.  Unity test for Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta in State of the Nation Address President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Thursday address the Nation from Parliament with uniting a torn country expected to be top of the agenda. While hunger and unemployment are long term challenges in the east African country, a divisive war on corruption and his dalliance with opposition leaders to the exclusion of his deputy have been of key interest within and outside Kenya. That has relegated his legacy projects dubbed the Big Four - manufacturing, housing, health and food security - to the backseat of national discourse.  Pompeo hails new DR Congo leader's 'change agenda' US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday praised the "change agenda" of the Democratic Republic of Congo's new president, Felix Tshisekedi, hailing his actions against corruption and other long-time scourges. Tshisekedi, who took office in January in the vast country's first peaceful transition of power, met Pompeo in Washington on a trip where he also spoke to business leaders.  Angolan President Joao Lourenco visits Russia Angola President João Lourenço will Thursady decorate President Vladimir Putin with the Agostinho Neto Order at the Kremlin. Agostinho Neto Order is the highest distinction of the Angolan State with a single degree. On Wednesday he addressed the Russia Parliament and attended a business forum between the two countries where he lobbied for more Russian private investment, including joint ventures. The few Russian companies in Angola are in diamond mining, banking and energy. Trade between the two countries stood at $500 million in 2016, 15 times higher than that of 2012 ($25 million).   Funding targets 268,000 people who had been internally displaced by conflict. The crew performed all the procedures repeatedly provided by Boeing.