South Africa's opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says he will visit Zimbabwe this week to seek solutions to the ongoing crisis. Mr Maimane hopes to garner support across the region for intervention in Zimbabwean, which is facing its worst economic crisis since attaining independence in 1980. “I will pay a working visit to Zimbabwe this week. I will meet with current opposition leader, Nelson Chamisa, and former Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader, Tendai Biti, among others," Mr Maimane said on Monday. "The purpose of this visit is to seek practical solutions to the ongoing crisis, and garner support across the region for much-needed intervention in Zimbabwe.” Among other things, the opposition leaders expect to discuss the DA's intention to approach the United Nations (UN), the International Criminal Court (ICC) and parliament over what the party terms a political and humanitarian crisis. Brutal crackdown “Widespread civilian suppression, military-led violence, and bloodshed have ensued, as (President) Emmerson Mnangagwa’s Zanu-PF government has implemented what can only be described as a dictator-like military clampdown on citizens, which has to date claimed the lives of at least 12 people,” said Mr Maimane Earlier this month, Zimbabweans took to the streets, sparking a brutal crackdown by the country's security forces. Mr Maimane revealed that DA was on the verge of writing to the office of the prosecutor of the ICC to request an investigation into the conduct of the government of Zimbabwe as per Article 15 of the Rome Statute. He added that the party would formally request the intervention of the UN Human Rights Council and an urgent joint meeting of the South African parliament’s portfolio committees on home affairs, international relations and cooperation, police and defence and military veterans to deliberate on the political and humanitarian crisis in Zimbabwe. Currently detained DA will also request the national assembly to urgently debate the impact of the violence by Zimbabwean government on South Africa. “Zimbabweans are fleeing their country, as we are told by border officials that over 130,000 people crossed the Zimbabwean/SA border in a single day in mid-January. The situation is dire,” said Mr Maimane. He said despite the humanitarian crisis, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s ANC government had “sat on its hands and watched on, employing its ‘quiet diplomacy’ policy”. “There has been no advocacy for the citizens, no justice for the deceased, and no protection of civil liberties for those who are currently detained,” concluded Mr Maimane.   President 'appalled' by Sky News report Burundi dropped 13 positions to rank 170 out of 180. Ethiopia has the world's lowest rate of car ownership.