Several years ago, British Airways coined the phrase Height Cuisine, to describe how its on-board meals were specially prepared to taste good in the air. The airline discovered that sour, spicy and bitter flavours don’t seem to be as affected by high altitude. Nor is the fifth taste – umami – the savoury flavour in tomatoes, soy sauce and mushrooms. Consequently, these umami flavours feature in many of the dishes served on board. Now, with a $8.35 billion five-year investment plan, the airline is offering more food and beverage options. “Our approach is to invest and innovate where customers value it most, so catering – on-board and in our lounges – is integral to the plan,” said Sue Petrie, commercial manager, trade for Southern and East Africa. To deliver the new catering, the airline has extended its partnership with Do&Co, the premier provider of fine dining in the skies, for all flights departing from Heathrow. In Kenya, it has appointed NAS Servair. In its Club World business class cabin, part of the investment includes a new dining experience. Other components are new bedding and amenity kits by luxury British retailer, The White Company. Alison Underwood, the airline’s head of catering, said that when planning the new Club World menu her team considered flavours, textures, look, and feel. The focus on detail extends to offerings such as the Club Kitchen, where customers can help themselves to indulgent treats as well as fresh fruit and healthy snacks. The Club Kitchen has proved to be one of British Airways’ most popular innovations. The offering of traditional favourites, including the Cadbury’s box, has now been extended to offer a larger array of British brands and updated healthy options. The catering improvements aren’t limited to business class. In the main cabin, World Traveller, it has introduced more quality and quantity to the menu, delivering tasty meals and snacking options. The British Airways’ team of chefs has now developed a four-course meal packed with flavours and the menu is changed every three months. Another focus is on regional flavours. On Kenyan routes, the first choice in each cabin is a route-specific East African dish.   Region scrambles to reengineer its security arrangements to prevent further attacks. The Baganda have been subjected to humiliation since 1890.