American gospel singer and songwriter Don Moen is expected in the region next month for his East African tour. He is scheduled to perform in Kampala, his second time in Uganda, on February 8, to headline the Kampala Praise Festival to be held at the Kololo Airstrip. Thereafter, he will head to Kigali, for the first time, to grace the MTN Kigali Praise Fest at the Kigali Conference Exhibition Village on February 10. Moen will be performing alongside Ugandan artists Wilson Bugembe, Sandra Suubi, Levixone, Watoto Children’s Choir, Brian Lubega, KPF Voice, DJ Twonjex and Exodus on the Kampala stage. He will grace the Kigali stage alongside Rwandan artists Israel Mbonyi, Dinah Uwera, Columbus, DJ Spin, DJ Shawn and the worship group Aflewo. The event is organised by RG Consult Inc, an East African creative, production and event management firm. Moen’s tour will feature performances by global and pan-African artists. This will be RG’s flagship gospel event and their first concert in Kigali and Kampala this year, after their successful New Year’s Eve party on the in Kigali. The 68-year-old best-selling gospel legend is a renowned artist, with a distinctive style of contemporary worship music. A multi-award winner, Moen has released 40 studio and live albums that include Give Thanks, Steadfast Love, Bless the Lord, Christmas, Eternal God, Worship with Don Moen, Mighty Cross, Rivers of Joy, Trust in the Lord-Live Worship with Don Moen and God with Us, which received a Dove Award and was certified Gold by the Gospel Music Association. With more than 100 songs to his name, Don Moen has enjoyed a music career spanning several continents over three decades, during which he has collaborated with artists like Claire Cloninger, Paul Overstreet, Martin J Nystrom, Randy Rothwell, Ron Kenoly, Bob Fitts, Debby Graafsma, Paul Baloche, Tom Brooks, Lenny LeBlanc, among many others. He helped launch the careers of Darlene Zschech, Israel Houghton and the world famous worship group, Hillsong United. “For the past five years, many people have been pursuing Don Moen and it had been hard to get him down here. But this time, we managed to secure his signature. Today we celebrate not only Don Moen, but also our new partners MTN for the Rwanda edition, hence the MTN Kigali Praise Fest, ” said Remmy Lubega, the CEO of RG Consult. The event, he added, would act as an avenue for East Africans to “commemorate the past year, and ask God to bless the following year through praise and worship.” In a video clip confirmation of his upcoming concert in Rwanda, Moen said: “I am excited to come to Rwanda, land of 1,000 hills and smiles, for the first time in February to stage the first edition of the Kigali Praise Festival. I look forward to seeing you all during the event.” Kigali Praise Fest will start at 4pm. Tickets are going for Rwf12,000 ($13) for an ordinary ticket, Rwf25,000 ($28) for a VIP ticket and Rwf250,000 ($278) for a VVIP table of eight. The Kampala Praise Fest will also start at 4pm. Tickets are Ush25,000 ($7) for an ordinary ticket, Ush80,000 ($22) for a VIP ticket and Ush3,000,000 ($811) for a VVIP table of eight.   Region scrambles to reengineer its security arrangements to prevent further attacks. The Baganda have been subjected to humiliation since 1890.