They stood still at the top of a steep hill, surrounded by a majestic forest. Pale light on the eastern horizon bathed the tallest of the tree-tops, and turned the fog covering the forest iridescent. River took it all in, feeling at once energised and excited. Then she turned the full force of her gaze on the man standing next to her, her smile breaking like the sunrise. “Well, what are you waiting for? Let’s go.” Sean looked at her, grinned and set off running. They ran in tandem, leaping over and ducking under obstacles in their way. They ran as if part of a team and it was hard to believe that just a few hours ago they did not know each other. Flying through a wall of stunning evergreens, they burst into a small clearing covered in waist-high blades of grass, lit golden by the morning sun. Panting, sweating and shaking from their run, they stood breathing heavily while planning their way forward. “We should keep moving a little longer…” Sean began then stopped suddenly, his handsome features darkening, his eyes glinting with focus. He reached for her abruptly and yanked her down into the tall grass just as River heard the roar building up in the sky. They watched the helicopter thunder overhead and circle before moving on ahead and disappearing into the horizon. “What…” River sat up shaken. “They’re looking for us and…” Sean stopped, the words weighing heavy on his tongue. “And?” River prompted, “What?” He turned and looked into the tawny, almond shaped eyes boring into him. She looked worried, anxious maybe, but there was no trace of fear. “If Don V sent out the chopper, then the forest’s already swarming with men, hunting dogs, drones… He’s desperate. You… you’ve caused him more trouble than you know… And me? Ha,” he laughed harshly, “I was his second-in-command, his point man… he’s going to make me pay for this betrayal.” Huge forest River inhaled deeply, processing his words yet already starting to formulate a plan. Over the years, her environmental activism had taken her to many wondrous places. This forest was the best of all, and she had sworn to protect it however she could. Her parents loved rivers as much as she did, hence the name. She wasn’t afraid for herself, she’d stand by her convictions to the end. Now, she was afraid for this stranger who had quickly become so important to her. This stranger who had been sent to kidnap and kill her for her relentless protests to protect the forest, but who was now throwing away everything to keep her safe. “Then,” she reached over and took one of his hands in hers, “we’ll have to make sure he never finds us.” “But how…” “This forest is unbelievably huge,” she cut him off, pulling him to his feet as she stood up, “We just have to get far enough and we can get lost forever.” Sean needed no convincing. He had been ready to risk it all from the moment he first saw her. Now here she was standing in front of him talking about forever. It was warm in the clearing, the sweet scent of the grass against the delicious cool of the morning air was heady and they wanted to stay there a while longer, but the unmistakable sound of the returning helicopter roused them to motion. The cool, shaded depths of the forest were quiet except for the occasional bird call or rustle as a small animal moved in the undergrowth. Shafts of sunlight fell in spotlights through the thick canopy. The river They ran quietly now, listening and watchful. River heard it first, the sound of running water, one of her favourite sounds second only to that of wind moving through leaves. She started toward it but was stopped short by a strong hand on her arm. “Where are you going? The river’s that way…” Sean whispered, not daring to raise his voice with hunting dogs out for them, “It’s too big, we can’t cross it.” “Well,” River began, a mischievous smile pulling at the sides of her mouth, “We’re not exactly crossing it, we’re…” A sudden, loud bark froze the words in her throat. Then a man yelled and another answered and more barks followed. The dogs had caught their scent. Sean’s eyes met hers in a spilt second of mutual understanding and they ran towards the river. The wild yapping of the dogs and the shouts of the men coming from random directions drove them faster. Getting to the river, River rushed ahead with wild abandon and into the tumultuous, swiftly moving water. “Hey,” Sean grabbed her as they slid down an embankment to the river edge, “The river’s fast, River…” he half smiled, realising the pun. “I know,” she said breathlessly, her eyes shining with adrenaline and excitement at the idea that they could get away, “Come on!” “Here, wait,” he said, taking off his belt, looping it and strapping it around her wrist, the other end held securely in his fist. The yells and barks were getting closer. Overhead, the deep boom of the chopper sounded as it came closer for reinforcement. Don V wasn’t one to let any slight go. Then, above them on the embankment all along the river, men and dogs suddenly burst forth at the tree line. “Sean! Stop! The Don just wants her back,” a man yelled, red with exertion and strain as he struggled to control a snarling dog threatening to pull off its leash. Sean and River exchanged one last look at each other, of absolute resolve. “Let’s go,” he mouthed. The bullets followed them into the water. But in the cold, watery world where they were tossed this way and that, as they tumbled over and under through fast moving rapids and short, steep waterfalls, the outside world ceased to exist and only survival permeated their minds. The river was treacherous and the strong current was known to overwhelm anyone who braved it. Few had tried it before, and none had survived. ************************** The men scoured the river bank for days afterward and finally concluded what they had believed all along, there was no way the the two could have survived. ************************** A bird flitted from a tree above where they sat wrapped in each other’s arms. “Pretty, isn’t it?” River murmured, lost in contented bliss. “Yes,” Sean whispered, looking down at her.   Region scrambles to reengineer its security arrangements to prevent further attacks. The Baganda have been subjected to humiliation since 1890.