Thomas Kamphuis became the Nile Breweries Ltd country director for Uganda and South Sudan in April, 2018, bringing with him over 18 years of experience. He previously worked as the marketing director in charge of the business unit in East Africa where he managed a portfolio of clear beer, traditional African beer and spirits brands in Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and South Sudan. A Dutch national, Kamphuis acquired his knowledge and experience in marketing and sales in Europe, having worked in the UK, the Netherlands and Australia, where he built his career before moving to Africa. He has worked in Zambia, South Sudan, South Africa and Tanzania, and has overseen many more. He is an alumnus of Wageningen University where he graduated with a Masters in Science after an undergraduate degree in Agricultural Economics, Food Industry and Environmental Economics at the Thij College, both in the Netherlands. Asked why he finds the beer industry exciting, Kamphuis, says, “Beer has been around since the beginning of time and has always brought people together to create friendships, bring joy at celebrations and generally to relax. It enriches people’s lives because it is interlinked with human interaction and the economy. We have millions of consumers and source raw materials from about 50,000 farmers. We also sell our products to 40,000 bars and these are all real people that make a living through beer.” He however singles out illicit alcohol as the biggest challenge facing the beer industry in Uganda. “This obviously leads to loss of revenue for us and also for the government, but even more worrying is that consumers are drinking products made in an uncontrolled environment, which poses significant health risks,” he adds. “The long term prospects are great due to the demographic and economic trends in Uganda, but in the short term it is important for us to compete with the informal and illicit alternatives,’’ he says. ------------------------------------------------- What’s your off-duty passion? Nature and the outdoors. I love spending time in the wild and in the water. My big passion is sailing and aim one day goal to sail across the Atlantic Ocean when I finally find the time. What signifies your personal style? Down to earth, honest and open to different points of view. How do you manage your wardrobe? Managing is a big word… I have a few items that I wear often. Other items pile up and after a year or so I either give them away or rediscover them. While in East Africa, where are you most likely to spend your Saturday afternoon? I’ve lived in Tanzania and Uganda. In Tanzania, you would find me in a sailing competition off the coast of Dar es Salaam. In Uganda, my daughter and I usually ride horses on Saturday afternoon. You love sailing and touring national game parks. Where have you sailed and which national parks have you visited in Uganda? I have been to Murchison and Kidepo national parks and I have sailed extensively around Zanzibar and on the North Sea in Europe. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? There are so many spectacular places but I would pick Murchison Falls National Park because it offers stunning scenery and it is only a few hours’ drive from Kampala. What would you have been if you were not into marketing and sales? A veterinarian or a farmer. How do you unwind after a day’s work? By drinking a cold beer. Do you have a bucket list? I don’t. I’ve been fortunate enough to have been able to travel widely for work and leisure, but I would like to visit Japan and the Middle East. What is East Africa’s greatest strength? The optimism and entrepreneurial spirit of the people. Their incredible resilience, humility and ingenuity is an example for the rest of the world. What is your best collection? My photographs. I am attached to them because they are unique to me. What’s the most thoughtful gift you have ever received? A good quality bed. Sleeping clears the mind and gives me the energy for a productive day ahead. What’s the best gift you have ever given? I like to give experiences that are memorable. We have taken our close family members on a few getaways and whenever we meet they still talk about it. What big book have you read recently? Thinking in Bets by Annie Duke. It is about making smart decisions without having all the facts. Which film has impacted you the most? Invictus. An incredible film with some great leadership lessons. What’s your favourite music? It depends on my current mood but generally I like 1970s to 1990s rock and blues. Closer home, I enjoy the shows of Diamond Platinumz, Fik Fameika and Casper Nyovest. What is never missing from your fridge? A cold beer.   Region scrambles to reengineer its security arrangements to prevent further attacks. The Baganda have been subjected to humiliation since 1890.