Isaac Kagara, a meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) consultant is passionate about travel and public speaking. As a frequent flyer, he tells us how he copes with the constant travelling. ------------------------------------------------ Are you a relaxed or an anxious traveller? I started out as a very anxious traveller since I was not familiar with the formalities involved in moving from gate to gate in huge airports. But eventually I got accustomed to the hustle as I frequently attended conferences and exhibitions as a MICE practitioner. I am now more relaxed and always reporting early at the airport. This allows me to go through the check-in process calmly so I get to relax before the journey begin. How often do you fly? A minimum of five times a year, depending on the invitations I receive when I do bidding for a conference. Sometimes I do not even schedule for travels. How do you prepare for a flight? I pack early. I write a list of what I need and I make sure that I am ready early, before leaving for the airport. What is your best airport? It has to be Kigali International Airport. First, it is small and there is no rushing between terminals. Second, it is home, so people are more friendly compared with other airports that may be physically impressive but quite daunting to navigate. What do you do on long flights? I do four things. First, I take advantage of the time to binge watch in-flight movies. Second, I use the time to catch up on my sleep. Third, I always make a point of carrying a book to read just in case things get dull. Fourth, I always sit next to the window, so I can take pictures with my camera. Are you particular about flying either business or economy? As much as there is comfort in business class, I am OK flying economy. Although long-haul flights in economy can be uncomfortable, one can always stand up, walk around and even stretch. But I don’t mind flying business class occasionally. Do you have any peculiar in-flight routines? Yes. I have made it a habit to stand, stretch and walk around the cabin. Some people find it a bit unsettling but it is a routine I picked up on my first flight since I had an uneasy feeling in my stomach and it helped to settle my nerves. So it’s hard to break it now. How do you dress for a flight? I prefer casual wear. A sweater or jacket on top of a t-shirt and jeans. The jacket always comes in handy on long flights when it can get pretty cold because of the high altitude. What are the five things you take on a long flight? I learnt this the hard way. In my early days I did not have a small suitcase or bag to keep all in stuff together so I hauled around a hiking bag, a laptop bag and two suits in different suit covers. It was a tiring. Now that I know better, I have big suitcase that I check in since it holds all my stuff. Then I have a small bag for my documentation. A sweater or jacket against the cold. Headphones just in case the ones on the flight are not of good quality. Light meal or snacks to prevent stomach upset. Do you prefer taking a taxi or to be dropped off and picked up by a friend or family member? I don’t mind using a taxi because departure is usually quick; but I do love being picked up by family or friends.   The Baganda have been subjected to humiliation since 1890. President Roch Marc Christian Kabore has accepted the resignations.