Police in the Ugandan capital Kampala have been ordered to monitor all events, ceremonies and functions, political or civil, and submit reports to the Directorate of Crime Intelligence. The directive was contained in an internal memo sent to all police commanders on Tuesday. The officers have 10 days to report on all events expected in the next six months. “You are instructed to compile and submit reports of all events, functions and ceremonies in your AOR (area of responsibility) from January to July 2019. Reports should reach this headquarters not later than January 18, 2019,” the memo signed by Moses Lukonge, the detective superintendent of police read. While it is not clear why the directive was issued, police have on several occasions blocked events by the opposition leaders. Firebrand Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi, alias Bobi Wine, has had most of his planned music concerts cancelled. The police labels the concerts by the musician-turned-politician as political events. On December 26, Bobi Wine was blocked from holding an event at his One Love Beach in Busabala on allegations that he had no authorisation from the police. He was also stopped from performing in two other events in the capital and Jinja (81km east of Kampala) and attending a church event in Buikwe, a town 58km east of Kampala. Police officers told Daily Monitor that they understood the new directive to mean they are required to inform the CID about who the organisers of the events are, composition of guests and purpose of the meetings whether religious, political or ordinary. CID spokesman Vincent Ssekate said he could neither confirm nor deny issuance of the order. “I don’t comment on internal issues, especially those that involve operations of crime intelligence. I don’t know whether the message you are talking about was issued or not,” he said.   Is it already game up for Bobi Wine? Past experience suggests it is. "As along as God still needs Museveni in power, no one can go against his will." France's Foreign Minister says outcome of presidential vote "not consistent" with the actual