I am not a fanatical football fan (except during the World Cup, when you will find me screaming without dignity at a location that will for now remain undisclosed). But I have some understanding of the game. Thus the confidence to start this column on leadership with a football analogy. How is it that one coach can make a team a world beater for many consecutive years, as Sir Alex Ferguson did with Manchester United, while another, given charge of the same team, oversees its decline? It is the same team, the same players, the same team owner and fans, and yet the departure of one individual radically changes its fortunes. What does a winning coach bring to a team? First, a talent for bringing out the best in each player. Second, a tactical plan for each opposing team. Third, ability to encourage among his players, and demonstrate by personal example, a total desire and commitment to win. Fourth, a total commitment to the strategic vision of the club. Observing the Red Cross in action during the dusitD2 terrorist attack, I could not help wondering how and why an outfit with such little funding and staffed mainly by volunteers, is so effective. The Red Cross is always the first to arrive, always efficient, always available to give updates on the situation, always available afterwards to help people locate their loved ones, while offering them psycho social support. In short, the Kenya Red Cross is a comforting and inspirational presence in times of emergencies. In the dusitD2 situation, the government was as organised as the Red Cross. Security forces arrived at the scene within minutes. They moved in a co-ordinated manner, each contingent aware of its task. Within a relatively short time, they had contained the situation and eliminated all the terrorists. It was an efficient, almost seamless operation, with the police giving regular and uncharacteristically truthful situational updates. Within hours, the police had made arrests all over the country and arraigned some in court. There were no excuses. That is what it means to perform to the highest possible standards. That is the difference an individual – Dr Matiang'i – can bring to a department. Contrast the security operation at dusitD2 with the comical and tragic reactions during the Westgate, Garissa and Mpeketoni terrorist attacks:At Westgate, the military broke off from the action in order to loot abandoned shops. In the Garissa incident, the then minister of security hopped onto a helicopter, leaving GSU Special Forces behind (was he hoping to defeat the terrorists singlehandedly? Given the illusion of grandeur that afflicts our leaders, that is not such a farfetched supposition). At Mpeketoni, security forces arrived 10 hours after the terrorists had concluded their killing spree. Each time we observed these clumsy, tragicomic efforts, we felt ashamed to be Kenyan. At dusitD2, the efficiency and professionalism made us proud. I know that private citizens who own guns can be lifesavers. But they can also be in the way of specialised forces. They are not privy to operational and tactical plans and they are not trained in the various aspects of tackling terrorists, especially in crowded public spaces. Of course as first responders, either because they are within or near the vicinity, their presence can make a life-or-death difference dozens of people. But they should be stood down as soon as the Special Forces arrive. Gun owners who see news of an attack on TV and rush to the site with their guns should not be entertained. A situation, as we saw at dusitD2, where private gun owners are jostling with special forces is a recipe for disaster. Back to the Red Cross. The reason it is so efficient is because of the leadership of Abbas Gullet, its director. He brings out the best in his staff. He and they are prepared for each situation, be it a house fire, road accident, famine or terror attack. He demonstrates, by personal example, a total desire and commitment to serve. And lastly, his outfit has improved from year to year, which presupposes a strategic view of disaster management. One wonders: What if Kenya had put people like Gullet and Matiang'i in key positions since Independence? But alas, persuaded by mystical forces, we place our destiny in the hands of thieving and incompetent so-called leaders. Four of the leading candidates for president in 2022 have been adversely linked to mega corruption. But we will vote for them in our millions.   The trio was arrested last year at the Kenya-Somalia border. University of Khartoum dons demand regime change