Uganda has deported another telecom provider MTN's executive, an Italian national, accused of inciting violence. Ms Elsa Mussolini was cast out on Tuesday evening just hours after the government evicted a Rwandan and a Frenchman, both executives of MTN. According to the police, Ms Mussolini was grilled for at least four hours over the alleged incitement to violence. She is the MTN's general manager mobile money. Ms Mussolini and her colleague, Mr Anthony Katamba, the general manager corporate services and chief legal counsel, were summoned and grilled separately by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. In the summons letter, DCI deputy director in charge of special investigations, Mr Elly Womanya, said the authorities were probing "alleged incitement to violence contrary to section 51 & 83 Penal Code Act” in which "some employees of MTN (U) Ltd are a subject of these investigations.” While Ms Mussolini was deported, the fate of Mr Katamba, a Ugandan, remains unclear. Probe ongoing Police spokesperson Fred Enanga confirmed Ms Mussolini’s deportation to Italy without giving details of the alleged crime. “A decision has been taken to deport Ms Mussolini for incitement to violence,” Mr Enanga said. “Investigations are still ongoing on why they participated in incitement to violence," adding that there are "several leads that they are following in this case.” On Monday, Ugandan authorities deported Rwandan national Annie Bilenge Tabura, a general manager sales and distribution, and a Frenchman Olivier Prentout, the chief marketing officer. MTN said in a statement Tuesday that Ms Tabura was arrested by unidentified security officers at their office in Kampala on Monday morning, while Mr Prentout had been arrested by police at Entebbe airport on Sunday, soon after he returned from a business trip. The two were accused of undermining state security with police saying that they "were using their employment as tools to achieve their ill motives." The unit of MTN South Africa, is the leading telecom provider Uganda. In July last year, its data centre was raided by agents said to be from Uganda's domestic intelligence unit. At the time, the telco denied reports that it was being investigated over breach of national security and tax evasion. More searches Police sources told the Daily Monitor on Tuesday that they are looking for more MTN employees suspected to have participated in inciting violence. It is however not clear why the suspects were not arraigned for their alleged crimes. Here is what section 51 & 83 of Uganda's Penal Code Act states:   Kampala authorities say the MTN executives were undermining state security. Government says it needs $20 million for peace efforts. African Jazz legend passes on in Harare.