The former paratrooper and long time lawmaker started his four-year mandate on January 1 as required by the constitution. Many Brazilians have expectations Mr Bolsonaro will be a new broom sweeping away chronic crime and corruption, and boosting an economy still limping after a record recession. Brazil's new far-right President Jair Bolsonaro declared a crusade against crime, corruption and left-wing ideology as he took office Tuesday for a four-year term at the helm of Latin America's biggest nation. In his first public speech wearing the presidential sash, Mr Boslonaro said Brazil will "start to free itself of socialism" and "political correctness," breaking with policies brought in under decades of leftist rule. The 63-year-old former paratrooper and veteran lawmaker received swift congratulations via Twitter from US President Donald Trump, with whom he shares a similar, brash style and outlook. "Congratulations to President @jairbolsonaro who just made a great inauguration speech — the U.S.A. is with you!" Trump wrote. Mr Bolsonaro responded by saying: "I truly appreciate your words of encouragement. Together, under God's protection, we shall bring prosperity and progress to our people!" In his inauguration speech before Brazil's Congress, Mr Bolsonaro called for "a true national pact" to restore his country's lackluster economy, "without ideological bias." While Mr Bolsonaro enjoys sky-high approval ratings, many in Brazil fear his nostalgia for the military dictatorship that reigned from 1964 to 1985, his hard-line approach to fighting crime and his record of disparaging women and minorities could herald a harsh shake-up. Even before being sworn in, Bolsonaro tweeted he would issue a decree easing gun laws to let "good" citizens own firearms to counter armed criminals — a measure opposed by 61 percent of Brazilians, according to a Datafolha survey. His promise to extend immunity to security forces who use lethal force against suspected wrongdoers has also sparked unease in a country where some 5,000 people a year are already killed by police. Brazil-Israel, US ties In his speech to Congress, Mr Bolsonaro repeatedly hammered left-wing "ideology" that he said had brought Brazil low. His past remarks made it clear he was referring to policies implemented by the Workers Party, which governed between 2003 and 2016 but ended up reviled for a string of corruption scandals. Brazil "will return to be a country free of ideological bonds," he said. He later told a crowd of supporters in front of the presidential palace: "We will re-establish order." Mr Bolsonaro has already said he will do all he can to challenge the leftist governments of Venezuela and Cuba. In a sign of his leanings and alliances, Mr Bolsonaro warmly welcomed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Brazil for his inauguration, and both leaders spoke of their "brotherhood." Mr Netanyahu said Mr Bolsonaro had assured him Brazil's embassy will be moved to Jerusalem. Mr Bolsonaro also admires Trump, with whom he shares nationalist instincts and a disdain of multilateral organisations. He has vowed to pull Brazil out of a UN global migration pact, and is considering doing the same with the Paris climate accord. The new leader's open hostility to the left prompted left-wing deputies to spurn his investiture. On his terms Mr Bolsonaro took over the presidency from a centre-right figure, Michel Temer, who succeeded the Workers Party Dilma Rousseff — impeached in 2016 — but who made little headway with needed fiscal reforms. Temer, Brazil's most unpopular leader ever, faces a number of corruption accusation on leaving office. Mr Bolsonaro supporters hope their man will do better, politically and economically. He has promised to govern for all of the country's 210 million Brazilians, though his initial declaration suggests it will be on his terms, as he seeks to remake the country around his agenda. While his government, which takes over on Wednesday, features a US-trained free market advocate as economy minister, and a star anti-corruption judge as justice minister, nearly a third of the 22 ministerial posts are held by ex-military men. There are also concerns for Brazil's extensive and diverse natural environment, with Mr Bolsonaro's pro-business push sidelining preservation — especially in the Amazon, sometimes called "the lungs of the planet," which is at risk from increasing deforestation. Mr Bolsonaro, meanwhile, has said his education ministry will stop "Marxist trash" being taught in schools and universities — another swipe at the Workers Party, which greatly boosted access to education for the poor and blacks. Tens of thousands of people attended Mr Bolsonaro's inauguration ceremony in Brasilia, which was held under tight security that included warplane patrols, anti-drone technology and multiple crowd barriers. Precautions were more stringent than in years past, in part because Mr Bolsonaro survived a stabbing attack by a mentally unstable man when he was campaigning for the presidency in September. "This inauguration is a turning point," said one in the crowd, 36-year-old teacher Mauro Penna. "We are very optimistic — this time our country is going to change."   Jair Bolsonaro’s victory at the polls in Brazil vividly illustrates the challenge. RFI accused of "declaring results (and) trends" as the vote count unfolds. Derek Clayton predicts 2030 or so for the two-hour marathon mark to fall.