A traditional healer is suing Ugandan Speaker of Parliament seeking compensation for alleged breach of contract claiming that he used his spiritual powers and charm to propel Ms Rebecca Kadaga to political prominence. Mr Damiano Akuze, in a suit filed before Jinja High Court on January 28, is seeking Ush200 million (about $55,000). He claims that on September 1, 1990, Ms Kadaga approached him at his shrine in Buwala, Buganda Zone, Lulyambuzi Parish in eastern Kamuli District, seeking his traditional medicine to help her attain a successful political career. “The defendant (Ms Kadaga) requested the plaintiff (Mr Akuze) to work on her so that she would be given a big job in government and also be driven in a convoy like a president. The defendant did not have money to pay the plaintiff at the time. So the plaintiff accepted to work on her on condition that she would pay the plaintiff as soon as she got the job,” Mr Akuze says in his suit. “The plaintiff worked on the defendant for two nights on September 1 and September 2, 1990, and the defendant acknowledged the good care that the plaintiff gave to her,” he adds. Mr Akuze further alleges that his charms enabled Ms Kadaga to serve as lawmaker in Uganda Parliament and an East African Assembly delegate, became a minister and currently the Speaker. “Immediately on the 3rd day of September 1990, the defendant was called by President Museveni and appointed minister and has since then held big positions in government,” he adds. He claims Ms Kadaga only paid him Ush1 million (about $270) on October 2017 but has since refused to clear the balance of Ush204.5 million ($55,000). Reward Ms Kadaga is yet to file her response in court. Attempts to contact her were futile as she was reported to have been chairing sessions in Parliament all day. The traditional healer avers that Ms Kadaga had pledged to construct him a house worth Ush100 million ($27,000), give him a Ush60 million ($16,000) tipper truck, purchase a plot of land for Ush40 million ($11,000) and four cows, among other rewards, making the total compensation claim $55,000. “The defendant’s refusal to pay the plaintiff is in breach of the contract as the plaintiff did all his work and has been administering traditional medicine up to October 2017 as contracted by the defendant but the latter has, without reason, breached the contract,” Mr Akuze states in the lawsuit. “The plaintiff has suffered mental anguish and inconveniences for which the defendant is held liable for general damages.” The traditional healer says he will adduce evidence during the trial to prove that Ms Kadaga is in breach of the contract. The court will set the hearing date after the Speaker files her response.  Bio   Mahir Khalid Riziki was already so well-known to Kenyan police who had emblazoned his face across Rwanda confirms Kagame to skip Heroes Day fete for EAC summit.