Hundreds of families have been left homeless and several have been killed after heavy rains caused destruction in various parts of Kenya. A man drowned as he tried to cross the flooded Kipkaren River in Nandi County, in Kenya's Rift Valley, while several families were left homeless as rains pounded the area. In Nyeri County, central Kenya, a dam burst its banks, visiting misery on residents of Mikumbune Kamangura village. Speaking to the media on Monday, irate residents attributed the destruction to the poor construction of the dam, which is meant to boost agricultural production in the area. Mr Morris Kinoti said the dam now poses additional danger to children after its fence was brought down by floods.     FLOODS Meanwhile, residents of Ngando village in Kirinyaga County, central Kenya, lost dozens of acres of crops to the floods. “We are calling on the government to give us relief food,” said Mr David Kiberenge, whose six-acre maize farm was ruined. “Our crops, homesteads and key roads connecting this village are flooded with water and we have been left hapless. The government should intervene and help us,” Mr Muthami said. In the North Rift, floods hampered the distribution of relief food in some areas. Several roads have been cut off by mudslides in Tindiret sub-county in Nandi County. Roads in West Pokot County have become impassable, making it difficult for humanitarian agencies to deliver relief food. Kerio Valley Director Philip Rotino and the authority’s acting Managing Director Sammy Naporos urged the government to settle the affected families in safer areas. The rains have rendered most roads in the Kerio Valley impassable, making it impossible for farmers to access markets. Last week, more than 40 people were killed in West Pokot following landslides occasioned by heavy rain.     ACCESS MARKETS “Our crops are likely to rot on the farm as we cannot access markets due to pathetic state of the roads,” said Rachael Chematia from Chesongoch, Elgeyo-Marakwet. In western Kenya, at least 450 households have been displaced. In Homa Bay County, 20 families' houses were destroyed, while 250 people were affected in Siaya County. In Kisumu County the number of households displaced in Nyando constituency has risen to 180. Families are camping at Nyamasao Primary School.Kakola-Ombaka chief Jacob Ongudi said: "By Monday morning the water levels had increase displacing many families. The county government officials came and promised to provide food stuff." The area usually suffers adverse effects of floods after River Nyando breaks its banks following continued rains in. "We need a medical camp and drugs plus for food aid to be given to the affected households so that our people do not suffer from life threatening water borne diseases in flood hit areas," said the chief.   Observers say Ethiopia and Egypt have ceded ground on their divergent demands "To disrupt this number of states would be a disaster to the country," Dr Elia says.