President Donald Trump, 73, was impeached for abuse of power by the House of Representatives on Wednesday, setting up a trial in the senate which is likely to exonerate him. By a 230 to 197 vote in the Democratic-majority House, the 45th US president became just the third occupant of the White House in American history to be impeached.The impeachment along party lines is likely to play out in the Senate trial where Republicans hold a majority. The House vote came four months after a whistleblower blew open the scandal of Trump pressuring Ukraine's president to investigate his potential White House challenger in 2020, Democrat Joe Biden. A bill granting special status to Cameroon's two crisis-hit anglophone regions was passed by lawmakers on Wednesday, as President Paul Biya attempts to ease two years of bloody violence. If the Senate approves the devolution law and it comes into force, the western areas will be able to develop their own education and justice policies. Cameroon's Northwest and Southwest Regions are home to most of the country's English speakers, who have been seeking to secede and form a republic of Ambazonia. More than 3,000 people have been killed in the conflict pitting government forces, separatists and opportunistic militants. Comoros became the first country to open a diplomatic post in Western Sahara which has been pushing for independence from Morocco. Moroccan diplomats said the opening of the consulate in the city of Laayoune on Wednesday solidified its claims to Western Sahara, which the Polisario Front contests. The Gambia also plans to open a consulate in the Western Saharan port city of Dakhla despite the international community wanting a referendum to decide the status of the fish-rich territory. Seven Moroccans and two Spaniards have been sentenced to up to ten years in prison for smuggling migrants, after a 2018 incident that led to the death of a student Hayat Belkacem, 22 last September. She was among a group attempting to reach Spain hidden under a tarpaulinin of a "go-fast", a powerful speedboat commonly used by drug traffickers. The Spanish driver of the boat was among those sentenced on Tuesday for ten years for "forming a criminal gang" and "complicity in illegal migration." Ryan Guan, 8, earned $26 million in 2019 - up from $22 million last year - on his YouTube channel Ryan's World making him the highest-paid creator on the platform. According to a ranking by Forbes Magazine, Guan aka Kaji's channel surpassed the $20 million made by Dude Perfect which shows a group of Texas pals attempting seemingly impossible feats. The channel launched by Ryan's parents in 2015 consists videos of Ryan opening boxes of toys and playing with them but recently started offering more educational videos. In third place was Russia's Anastasia Radzinskaya, 5, who earned $18 million from her channels Like Nastya Vlog and Funny Stacy whose videos are in Russian, English and Spanish.   Rwandan leader says every citizen has the right to a secure environment. Uganda has been widely praised for its open-door policy towards refugees.