With the year 2019 coming to a close, winning the Nobel Peace Prize by Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali and the recent launching of Ethiopia's maiden satellite into space have ignited hope of further socio-economic and technological advancements in 2020. The East African country would warmly recognise the concluding 2019 as a historic year, mainly due to these positive developments in the country. The Nobel Peace Prize, awarded by the Norwegian Nobel Committee to Ahmed "for his efforts to achieve peace and international cooperation, and in particular for his decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighbouring Eritrea," had come at a critical time as the rapprochement of ties among Ethiopia and fellow Horn of African countries ignited hope of new beginning to the fragile Horn of Africa region. Upon announcing Ahmed's winning of this year's Nobel Peace Prize, the Norwegian Nobel Committee in a press statement issued on October 11 stressed that "the prize is also meant to recognize all the stakeholders working for peace and reconciliation in Ethiopia and in the East and Northeast African regions." Describing the Ethiopian premier's Nobel Peace Prize winning as "a timeless testimony to the main ideals of unity, cooperation and mutual coexistence that Ahmed has been consistently championing," the Ethiopian PM's Office also stressed that the steps taken to amend the broken relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea have been "critical to regional stability and integration in the spirit of Medemer (Amharic word for synergy)." In addition to the recognition's positive implications to the fragile Horn of Africa region many analysts also stressed that the phenomenon would inject a positive imputes in solving Ethiopia's own internal conflicts. According to the UN migration agency, in 2018, Ethiopia recorded the third highest number of new displacements worldwide, with some 3,191,000 Internally Displaced Persons across the country. A significant portion of these displacements are conflict-induced, largely related to ethnic and border-based disputes. On December 10, Ahmed told the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in Oslo, capital of Norway his resolve to bring sustainable peace and solidarity in Ethiopia, in particular, and across the Horn of Africa region.   Reports indicate the eight survived on raw fish and other sea creatures. "Justice will be achieved. The law will take its course on all killers," said Hamdok.