Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan will resume talks aimed at resolving a feud over Ethiopia's Grand Renaissance Dam next week in Washington. Egypt's irrigation ministry said at the end of the latest talks in Cairo, Egypt that ministers would meet on December 9 in the United States capital followed by "technical" discussions in Khartoum on December 21-22. The urgency of meetings comes as the January 15 target to resolve the dispute that was agreed with Washington last month draws closer. Observers at the Cairo meeting indicated earlier that Egypt and Ethiopia were closing ranks on the period it would take to fill the $4 billion, 6400 megawatt dam. The former chief of staff to Gabonese President Ali Bongo Ondimba, Brice Laccruche Alihanga, and two ministers in the energy sector were arrested Tuesday in a widening investigation into graft. The country's public prosecutor Andre Patrick Roponat said two former ministers - Tony Ondo Mba and Noel Mboumba - were arrested after they were dismissed from the government on Monday. The prosecutor said the the three were mentioned by suspects in custody over embezzlement of public funds, extortion and money laundering related to the $142 million scandal at Gabon Oil Company. The arrests of nearly two dozen people follow President Bongo's return to the country after months of treatment abroad for a stroke suffered in October last year. The World Food Programme (WFP) says it will provide 4.1 million Zimbabweans with cereal, pulses and vegetable oil in food aid following a devastation from drought. About half of the country's population is facing hunger with 7.7 million reported to be experiencing severe hunger. WFP will deliver more than 240,000 tonnes of food to ease the hunger with poor rains forecast for the main harvest in April likely to aggravate the scale of hunger in the country. Twenty-three people were killed and more than 130 injured as a fire triggered by an explosion in a gas tanker tore through a factory in the Sudanese capital on Tuesday. Witnessessaid the blaze broke out at a tile manufacturing unit in an industrial zone of north Khartoum which employed more than 50 Indian nationals, among others. Preliminary reports indicatde that necessary safety equipment was missing at the site as inflammable materials improperly stored fuelled the fire. The River Nile has burst its banks in heavy rainfall in the West Nile region of Uganda, cutting off a major highway connecting the country. The Uganda Red Cross society said the floods covered the vegetation along the Pakwach road on the Pakwach-Arua highway. Rain-triggered disasters, including flash floods and landslides, have killed at least 250 people, half of them in Kenya, and affected some three million people across East Africa in recent weeks.   The deal will see 'Visit Rwanda' branding displayed at PSG's home ground Parc des Princes. Anzrah is a brother of the late football legend Joe Kadenge.