Rwanda has partnered with French top-flight team Paris Saint-Germain in its drive to promote tourism. In a statement on Wednesday, Rwanda Development Board (RDB said the deal would expose "Rwanda’s breathe-taking beauty, creative culture, innovative environment, and modern and distinctive Made in Rwanda products" to PSG followers and the world. The three-year partnership will see Visit Rwanda' branding displayed PSG's home stadium Parc des Princes as well as on the sleeve of PSG women’s team, and on the back of training kits. The partnership will also convey Rwanda’s openness to welcome business partnerships from France and across the world," RDB said in statement. The deal will see 'Visit Rwanda' branding displayed PSG's home stadia Parc des Princes as well as on the sleeve of PSG women’s team, and on the back of training kits. Also, the tea and coffee served in the stadium will be Rwandan sourced Both RDB and PSG did not announce the value of the deal. In addition, Rwanda will conduct a roadshow in the French capital Paris, dubbed Semaine du Rwanda à Paris (Rwanda Week in Paris), to promote locally-made products. Marc Armstrong, PSG chief partnership officer said: “With this partnership, we will deepen our engagement with fans in Africa. This multifaceted collaboration will showcase all Rwanda has to offer and create powerful partnerships to contribute to Rwanda’s impressive growth.” RDB chief executive officer, Clare Akamanzi, said the partnership aimed at attracting more tourists, boosting its export products and creating job opportunities for its citizens. “We invest part of our tourism revenues in strategic collaborations such as the one with Paris Saint-Germain because we understand the positive effect they have on the overall perception of the country globally. We cannot wait for Paris Saint-Germain fans to get to know today’s Rwanda – an ambitious, modern country that has much to offer the world,” Said Ms Akamanzi. As part of the deal, the PSG first-team players and former players will travel to Rwanda and their experiences will be shared through PSG’s digital platforms, while PSG will organise training programs for Rwandan coaches and young footballers. The deal is Rwanda’s second tourism sponsorship deal with an international football club. In June last year, Rwanda signed a controversial three-year shirt¬sponsorship deal, estimated $40 million, with English Premier League team Arsenal to boost its tourism. Kigali, however, defended the pact arguing the money was part of its marketing budget sourced from funds earned from tourism. Rwanda prides itself as one of the region's top tourist destinations with its unique mountain gorilla trekking in Virunga massif that straddles Rwanda, Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda a major attraction. Other attractive ventures in water sports, cycling, hiking and bird watching. Rwanda received 1.7 million visitors who spent $380 million in the country in 2018, according to RDB. The targeted tourism revenue for 2019 is $407 million. Rwanda attracted $2 billion in investments in 2018 with hospitality, aviation and real estate the main drawers. Tourism in Rwanda has of late been threatened by incursions from rebel groups in neighbouring countries. In October, militants attacked a village in the northern mountainous region famous for gorilla trekking, killing 14 residents. Rwanda is working with the Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda and Burundi to enhance cross-border security.   Anzrah is a brother of the late football legend Joe Kadenge.