Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari says South Korea's Hyundai Engineering Company Limited plans to set up a vehicle manufacturing plant in the country. President Buhari said he met the President of the company Chang Hag-Kim on Tuesday who made the proposal. President Buhari, who turned 77 on Tuesday, said he pledged the Federal government's support to help realise the investment. Central African Republic's (CAR) former President François Bozizé, who is under UN sanctions, has returned to the country after six years in exile. Mr Bozizé's Kwa Na Kwa party announced his return on Monday, sparking speculation he could be a candidature in next year's election. A presidential candidate is required to have lived in the country for at least a year. However, an international arrest warrant initiated by the CAR in 2013 accusing him of "crimes against humanity and incitement to genocide" is still in force. Tunisia's president Kais Saied commemorated the uprising that toppled Zine El Abidine Ben Ali with a vow to honour the demands of the revolution.During a surprise visit at Sidi Bouzid where protests erupted, sparking the Arab Spring movements in northern Africa, Saied promised freedom, work and dignity. He also declared December 17 a national holiday despite there being another on January 14 that marks the ouster of Beli Ali, who passed away in Saudi Arabia in September. Demonstrators rallied in the Algeria's capital Algiers Tuesday against the newly elected president Abdelmadjid Tebboune, rejecting his offer of dialogue with the protest movement. Abdelmadjid Tebboune won 58.1 percent of the vote in the December 12 election, and on Friday said he was ready for talks to "build a new Algeria". But protesters want officials who they consider remnants of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika regime to make way for new, independent institutions. Tebboune is due to be sworn in on Thursday but protesters question his legitimacy given the low voter turnout in the polls. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has warned against attempts "to control" neighbouring Libya as tensions grow over Turkey's expanding ties with the Tripoli. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan expressed readiness to send troops to Libya if requested by the country's Government of National Accord (GNA). Erdogan met GNA head Fayez al-Sarraj on Sunday in Instanbul and last month signed maritime and military deals with GNA which Egypt considers illegitimate. While Turkey and Qatar support the GNA, Egypt backs strongman Khalifa Haftar's Libyan National Army which has since April been on an offensive to capture Tripoli. Eritrea reached their first Cecafa Challenge Cup final in Kampala on Tuesday after shocking favourites Kenya 4-1. The Eritreans have been on a long break from the tournament because of instability in the country. The Red Sea Camels, as Eritrea are known, will meet the Uganda cranes, who beat Tanzania 1-0, in the December 19 final.   The new government has pledged to end conflicts in regions including Darfur. Kabendera's case adjourned to January 2,2020.