A Brussels court found a former Rwandan official Fabien Neretse guilty of genocide on Thursday after hearing of his role in the 1994 massacres in his country. The 71-year-old agricultural scientist is the first person to be convicted in Belgium on such a charge and he now faces a possible life sentence. He was found guilty of "war crimes" for killing nine identified civilians in Kigali and two in a rural area north of the capital in April and July 1994. Libya's unity government on Thursday approved the implementation of a military deal with Turkey despite protests from Egypt which supports rival forces led by Khalifa Haftar. The two sides have been locked in a bitter stalemate since the killing of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 with at least 200 civilians and more than 2,000 fighters killed since April alone when the fight for Tripoli began. The conflict has exposed regional rivalries with Qatar and the United Arab Emirates fighting in opposite corners for Fayez al-Sarraj's Government of National Accord and Haftar's Libya National Army, respectively. America's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Merck's Ebola vaccine, which is being used to fight the deadly virus in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This makes it the first FDA-authorised vaccine against the deadly virus and follows endorsements by the World Health Organization and The European Commission earlier this year. The controversial use of a second unauthorised vaccines by Johnson & Johnson in the DRC Ebola outbreak prompted the resignation of the country's health minister. The Merck vaccine, first deployed without approvals in Guinea in 2015, has been administered on 150,000 people in DRC, recording a 97 per cent success. The UN Security Council on Thursday approved a one-year extension of its peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo, decreasing the number of soldiers. The MONUSCO mission's troop will be reduced from the 15,900 currently deployed, after the council reviewed th ceiling from 16,875 to 14,660. The police component of the $1 billion-a-year mission will however increase by 360, in changes a diplomat said reflected improvement of security under President Felix Tshisekedi who took office in January. The Nigerian High Court has declared that sex work is not a crime and awarded damages to 16 women who were arrested for prostitution in 2017. Justice Binta Nyako found no law forbids prostitution in what promises to be a reality check for security agents who routinely harass, shame and extort money from women suspected of being escorts. In the case leading to the ruling, police broke into the homes of the 16 women alleging that they were sex workers while in May, 60 women were arrested in Abuja over prostitution. Abdelmadjid Tebboune,74, was sworn in Thursday as Algeria's new president, a week after winning elections marred by mass protests and record abstention. The former prime minister succeeds veteran leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was forced out in April in the face of mass demonstrations after two decades in office. Protesters dismiss Tebboune as part of the corrupt system that has ruled Algeria since independence in 1962;a system they want dismantled. During the swearing-in, however, Tebboune promised a new constitution which would reduce presidential powers and "guarantee separation and balance of powers."   Agreement reached during a bilateral meeting between trade officials from both countries. Dr Machar now travels under tight security from Sudan and Uganda forces.