South African Airways has been placed under a state-led rescue to prevent it from collapsing. The government said it would give the airline 2bn rand ($136m), adding that lenders would lend the airline another 2bn rand. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan said the money was intended to lead a radical restructuring of the airline which has lost more than $2 billion since 2006. Authorities in northern Nigeria have suspended a bride-price levy imposed by a village chief following a public outcry. Residents of Kera village in Kano state complained that the 137,000 naira ($375) levy, to be paid by the groom to the bride's family, had prevented marriages. Maigida Adamu, the chairman of the local government authority for the area, said the chief imposed the levy unilaterally and a committee was reviewing his actions. Moroccan police said Wednesday they had disrupted an Islamic State group cell and arrested four suspects in a joint operation with Spain.The anti-terror police said the head of the group was arrested in the Spanish capital Madrid and its three members detained in Morocco's northern Nador region in a simultaneous raid. It said the suspects aged between 24 and 39 organised meetings to "plan terrorist operations in response to repeated calls from IS leaders." A Moroccan YouTuber Mohamed Sekkaki appeared in court Tuesday for "insulting Moroccans and constitutional institutions" in a video. The kingdom's public prosecutor said he was detained on Sunday after publishing a video in which he criticised King Mohammed VI, considered "inviolable" by the kingdom's constitution. The public prosecutor said it had "received several complaints" from citizens concerned by the video, which "included insults and degrading descriptions". His arrest comes less than a week after Moroccan rapper Mohamed Mounir was sentenced to a year in prison for "insulting a public official" in a video published online.   The stockpiling will start with Merck’s newly developed Ervebo vaccine. Nancy Pelosi instructs House Committee to draft articles of impeachment against Donald Trump.