Ugandan youth dominated the top prizes in the 2019 Youth Heritage Competition, scooping first, third and fifth prizes while Kenya took second and fourth. Ronald Acoka’s illustration of Mato oput, a traditional dispute resolution in Acholi, took the top prize while Francis Asite won third prize for his illustration of the tolukoka, a traditional dispute resolution practice in the Madi community. Kizito Henry Alpido took position four with his illustration of the peace making ritual known as alitisiza among the Lugbara community. Kenyan Senewa Nkuito was second with his illustration of the Olkila—a beaded leather skirt worn by Maasai women while Regina Kalondu Muthusi’s illustration of the Mukwa—a leather belt used by Akamba and Agikuyu women as a burden strap, came fifth.   In the competition, over 450 youth from Kenya and Uganda were asked to illustrate and explain how cultural practices, rituals, items or games can bring about peace and unity in their respective communities. Following selection by two juries, composed of heritage, education and art experts in Kenya and Uganda, 13 of the best entries were selected and have been used to design a cross-border heritage calendar for 2020. The project is a joint effort by the Cross-Cultural Foundation of Uganda and the Community Peace Museums and Heritage Foundation of Kenya to enhance social cohesion among Kenya and Uganda youths. During the Mato Oput ritual, as captured by Acoka, the person, community, village or clan that has committed the offence is required to bring a goat or sheep which is slaughtered and boiled. A plant called Oput is chopped into small pieces, mixed with water and dropped into the boiled meat. The heads of the two warring parties are brought in contact indicating unity and brotherhood. The meat is then eaten by the two parties. Among the Maasai, the Olkila is a peace item that women would lay on the path of morans (warriors) preparing to go to war. The tolukoka ritual involves mechanisms like the joint mingling of millet bread, eating, praying, working, celebrating and mourning among the concerned parties. Still on peace making, no one would fight when a mother removed the mukwa and held it above her head or dropped it on the ground between fighting people or communities. Among the Lugbara in northern Uganda, during the Alitisiza ritual, two warring clans will each bring a goat or sheep, local beer (kpete) and a spear. An elder from each clan will bend the blade of his spear, declaring that misfortune will befall anybody that provokes a fight thereafter. This is followed by an exchange of spears between the elders, drinking beer, and eating the slaughtered animal by all present to mark the end of the conflict. Other winners included Ugandan Jude Kato for his illustration of the ritual of okuta omukago (blood pact) among the Baganda; Alphonse Mutisya Mukusyo from Machakos County, Kenya) for the wooden ndata kimbu—a peace staff named after the chameleon’s (kimbu) toes; Samuel Ojakol of Soroti District for illustratiing the aipudun—a child-naming ritual among the Teso and Karagwa Ann Treasure for her illustration of the drinking of Ajono—a drink of peace and unity among the Iteso.   The constitution allows him to run for another two five-year terms until 2034. The deposed head of state was earlier indicted by ICC on multiple criminal charges.