Rwanda’s southern district of Musanze is known as the country’s tourism hub, and home to the rare mountain gorillas. Musanze enjoys a cool breeze all year round, which comes from the five volcanoes—Karisimbi, Bisoke, Muhabura, Gahinga and Sabyinyo—that envelope the district, part of the eight volcanoes in the Virunga Mountains. On the three-hour drive from Kigali, there are large grass fields, dotted with white and red wild flowers adding to the splendour of the area. There’s much to discover in the area and on a recent visit I went to Red Rocks. The cultural centre, campsite, bistro and backpackers hostel got its name from the red rocks that remained as vestiges of a volcanic eruption in the 1400’s. History and culture Located seven kilometres out of Musanze town, the centre is a time capsule, taking visitors thousands of years back into the Rwandan culture. While at the centre, one gets to experience a bit of the life Rwandans lived many years ago. Traditional musical instruments like inanga (traditional guitar), indingiri (violin), ingoma (drums) and umwirongi (flute), can be played at the centre. The instruments are also used as ornaments, mostly on the ceiling. One can also take part in cultural festivals, which include the banana beer and umuganura (harvest) festivals, and play traditional board games (igisoro).   In the “kitchen”, guests can experience the preparation of a traditional Rwandan dish, where foods like cassava and millet bread are made. Sweet potatoes and other local foods are grilled or boiled in pots sitting on cooking stones. In addition, the centre recreates traditional Rwandan functions like a woman making a traditional meal, or a cultural wedding. A healer’s shrine embossed with regalia has a garden of local herbs and other remedies surrounding it. The campsite is also dotted with traditional garden gnomes, clothed in regal attire. Depending on the centre’s calendar, there are training sessions for youth in hunting, basketweaving, milking, poetry, traditional dressing, dances and cattle rearing. The bistro offers an array of cuisines—traditional and modern—made from freshly harvested foods. Besides being a cultural time machine, Red Rocks has carved a niche as one of the best camping sites in the area, a place where groups of people can spend time away from the hustle and bustle of modern city life. Group experience I went with a group of friends with whom we had completed a two- month Christian programme called Man Enough, that equips men with knowledge to function well in their divine mandate of manhood. Everyone in the group agreed that we couldn’t have chosen a better camping site. The centre has social enterprise component, where they nurture and empower local talent in a space where artists can paint and other creatives can explore their talents. The paintings, or baskets weaved are sold to tourists at the Red Rocks gallery, and the money goes back to the artists who come from the surrounding communities. The centre itself looks like one large piece of art. Its structures are uniquely built in a set up that depicts purity and vulnerability, which is the story of many African cultures. The other bright side is its pocket friendly rates. For $18, one can camp in a tent that comes with a mattress and covers, and for $25 you can get a room in the hostel, with hot showers. The above prices come with breakfast and two meals. And before you go to sleep, be sure to enjoy the campfire.   An enraged public says move will desecrate famous park. Pundits say he may run for presidency if the opposition lacks a joint candidate.