When Prof Barnabas Nawangwe was applying for the position of vice chancellor of Makerere University, he promised a research-focused and financially independent institution. But that promise is stuck, what with revelations that the university is bleeding money on litigation. According to a confidential dossier with Parliament’s Committee on Education and Sports, Makerere University’s litigation and legal settlements expenditure stands at Ush5 billion ($1.4 million). “The amount for litigation and legal settlements dwarfs the sum the university spends on research,” reads the dossier. While there is no single figure, some sources point to Makerere University spending eight times as much money on litigation as it does on research. Dr Deus Kamunyu, the chairperson of the Makerere University Academic Staff Association, who is on suspension, says the institution spends Ush650 million ($176,233) on research. The dossier to parliament puts the amount at Ush600 million ($162,680). Dr Muhammad Kiggundu, the university communications manager, however, disputes these figures, saying that there are donor funds that may have been omitted from the compilation. Jacob Opolot, chairman of the Committee on Education and Sports, said they are investigating gender inequality in appointments at Makerere, but will also look into the ongoing lecturers’ strike and its attendant crises. The staff, who had announced plans to strike over the government’s failure to meet their promised pay increments, went on strike anyway, following Prof Nawangwe’s suspension of their leaders and a change in the human resource manual. Forty-seven members of staff were sacked due to the change and many have already filed cases with the labour and civil courts. Other funds have been spent settling two cases out of court. These two arose from disputes with Prof Mahmood Mamdani the Director of Makerere Institute of Social Research (MISR). Two other cases from MISR are still in court. Makerere University staff have previously downed tools over pay. Currently, there is an on-going strike over two members of Council, the university’s top most decision making body. The staff want Ruth Iteu appointed to represent administrative staff on the Council and three of their suspended leaders, including Dr Kamunyu, reinstated among other things.   Forty five lecturers were fired for reasons such as absconding, financial fraud and insubordination. With leaders trading explosive accusations, tensions appear to be accelerating dangerously. TDB, the lead co-arrangers for the new credit line, plan to raise the cash by April.