It’s just another Thursday morning. Paul gets up and prepares for work as usual. He gets to the office, and an excited colleague gives him the thumbs up, congratulates him, and walks away laughing. Another colleague calls out from the opposite direction. “Wow! I didn’t know you were a sentimental guy!” What is he talking about? His boss passes by his desk and says: “I bet you want to leave early today, huh? Looks like you’d rather be out somewhere having fun. Better wrap things up fast so that you can go on your date. “With that red shirt, seems like you take these things seriously! Happy Valentine’s to you!” Oh no! It’s Valentine’s Day! Paul had forgotten and wore his red shirt to the office, and now everybody thinks he’s into the whole celebration of love. There’s nothing wrong with honouring the day and wearing red. Why do people think it is embarrassing to carry a bouquet of flowers on Valentine’s Day, yet it’s ok to carry it on any other day? Surely, it is a day of love, and painting the town red! We should all wear red and be proud of it, have fun and celebrate love. Don’t be like Paul, be prepared this year. If you don’t have a date, you could go to the world’s largest speed dating event, hosted by Jumia on February 9 at KICC, targeting more than 1,500 singles aged between 21 and 45. Singles will gather at the venue armed with their sparkling personalities and will each get a name card and a log book. Each individual will have 20 dates and each date is expected to last three minutes. Jumia says the event will be held in a safe and fun way. Once you find your match, where will you go on February 14? If you’re in Uganda, head to the Kampala Serena Hotel where couples and individuals will stand a chance to win a trip for two to Mombasa at the Valentine’s party. Dubbed “Toast to Love,” the party will feature singers including Aziz Axion, Geosteady Blackman, Naava Grey, saxophonist Happy Kyazze and Afrigo Band. Charges are Ush250,000 ($70) for singles and Ush450,000 ($120) for a couple. If you’re in Nairobi, you could express your love on canvas and channel your inner Picasso at Umami at the Concord Hotel in Parklands. Charges are Ksh3,000 ($30) for singles and Ksh6,000 ($60) per couple. Or enjoy a romantic dinner under the stars with Sarova Stanley’s cupid inspired, five-course, intimate dinner at the Pool Deck Restaurant. Charges are Ksh6,500 ($65) per person. In Mombasa, celebrate love at the Serena Beach Resort & Spa. The Sokoni Plaza will have a barbecue dinner and red roses for the ladies as you enjoy music by a live band. Charges are Ksh 3,500 ($35) per person. And at the Jahazi Grill, dinner will be inclusive of a glass of champagne and red roses for the ladies as you enjoy some live jazz. Charges are Ksh6,000 ($60) per person. Every celebration needs some champagne. Have some Dom Pérignon, which is also known as the “champagne of the gods.” A bottle of Dom Pérignon costs Ksh 23,600 ($236). Moët & Chandon is another great option. For Valentine’s, the Moët & Chandon Rosé Imperial, renowned for its radiant colour, intense fruitiness and seductive palate, makes a perfect gift. You can get a bottle of Moët & Chandon Rose Imperial at Ksh 6,740 ($67).   His music he left with us remains mystical, other-worldly, timeless and deeply traditional. Muhoozi Kainerugaba moves up to the second highest army rank.