Nigerians began voting for a new president on Saturday after a week-long delay that has raised political tempers, sparked conspiracy claims and stoked fears of violence. Some 120,000 polling stations began opening from 0700 GMT, although there were indications of a delay in the delivery of some materials and deployment of staff, AFP reporters said. Results are expected from early next week, with the winner gaining control of Africa's most populous nation and leading oil producer for four years. President Muhammadu Buhari was one of the first to vote, and emerged from the polling booth in his home town of Daura, in the northwest state of Katsina, to say he was confident of victory. "So far, so good," he told reporters. "I will congratulate myself. I'm going to be the winner." His main challenger, Atiku Abubakar, 72, is expected to vote in his home state of Adamawa, in the northeast. Electors are also choosing 360 members of the House of Representatives and 109 senators from a choice of 6,500 candidates. Shortly before polls opened, a series of blasts rocked the northeastern city of Maiduguri, which has been repeatedly hit by Boko Haram Islamists. Security sources also reported attacks in Auno, 25 kilometres (15 miles) west of the city, and in Geidam, in neighbouring Yobe state. Delay The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last Saturday announced a one-week delay to the election, just hours before it was due to get under way. That angered voters who had already travelled to their home towns and villages to participate, and saw the main parties accuse the other of conspiring with INEC to rig the result. Neither has produced evidence and the elections watchdog has worked round the clock to overcome difficulties in delivering materials, which it had blamed for the postponement. INEC chairman Mahmood Yakubu has given an indication of the scale of the task, announcing that more than 825,000 temporary staff had been drafted in to help conduct the vote.   Security More than 80,000 vehicles and nearly 1,000 boats have been hired to transport ballot papers, results and other materials to and from polling units. "I want to reassure you that elections will be held on Saturday," he said on Thursday. "There won't be another postponement." The logistical fine-tuning, however, has been overshadowed by comments from Mr Buhari that he had ordered security forces to be "ruthless" with vote-riggers and ballot-box snatchers. Critics said his warning was a "licence to kill" to the police and the military, while Mr Abubakar said his comments were not fitting for an elected head of state. President Buhari has since sought to reassure voters not to be afraid, promising an "atmosphere of openness and peace, devoid of fear from threat or intimidation". Boko Haram Analysts SBM Intelligence say 233 people were killed in 67 incidents of election-related violence from last October to Friday -- an average of two people per day. The election campaign has come against a backdrop of wider violence from Boko Haram Islamists and criminal gangs in the north that have killed more than 200 people this month alone. That could affect participation in some affected areas and combine with voter apathy from last weekend's postponement to affect turnout, according to analysts. Just over 84 million people were registered to vote but only 72.7 million (86 percent) of those will be allowed to vote, as they have picked up their voter identity cards. Pledges In 2015, former military ruler Buhari became the first opposition candidate in Nigerian history to defeat a sitting president, beating Goodluck Jonathan by 2.5 million votes. Mr Buhari has again vowed to be tough on insecurity and corruption, and wants to complete much-needed road and rail infrastructure projects, as well as social mobility schemes. Mr Abubakar is a pro-business free marketeer whose main pledges have been to privatise giant state-run companies and float the embattled naira currency. Nigerian elections have previously been characterised by voting along ethnic and religious lines. But with President Buhari and Mr Abubakar both northern Muslims, that could split the northern vote, making southern states a key battleground. Opponents have accused Me Buhari of trying to manipulate the judiciary that would rule on any dispute about the results, after he suspended the country's chief justice this month. Nigeria's Business Day newspaper on Friday said whoever wins has to repair a "broken economy" limping back from recession, and hit by high unemployment, inflation and weak growth. Some 87 million Nigerians live in extreme poverty, with the gulf between haves and have-nots widening.   Tensions have increased since last Saturday when the electoral commission postponed the vote. Clashes erupted in the country’s bread basket and imports supply route to Juba. Shadowy Kenyan buyer Indo Power has yet to shell out the money it promised.