Tanzanian singer Nandy, of the hit song Ni Nogeshe, set the Coke Studio on fire with her performance of Nigerian performer Skales’ Shake Body at the first episode of Coke Studio Africa 2019 on Sunday. The non-competitive music collaboration show is now in season six, broadcasting across Africa, airing on local TV stations like NTV on Sundays at 10pm. The episodes are also available on YouTube after the live show. The objective of the show is to bring together, and celebrate the diversity of African music and talent, culture and foods, and give up-and-coming artistes the opportunity to work with some of the best local and international musicians and producers. Unlike the Tusker Project Fame, which was not only regional and a competition, Coke Studio is a collaborative show and features musicians from around the continent. This year's theme is celebration and pride in Africa’s different musical genres and cultures. Participants Musicians from the region lined up for this year’s show are Khaligraph Jones (Kenya), Nandy (Tanzania), Sheebah (Uganda), to be joined by Mr Eazi (Nigeria), Boity (South Africa), Shellsy Baronet (Mozambique), Winky D (Zimbabwe) and Rophnan (Ethiopia). The fast rising region stars such as Nadia Mukami (Kenya), Mimi Mars (Tanzania) and Alvin Kizz (Uganda) will also feature in the Big Break segment. Special tribute episodes will feature King Saha (Uganda), Weasel (Uganda) and an all-female hip hop episode featuring Nazizi (Kenya), Boity (South Africa) and Lioness (Namibia). The show’s past stars have won awards at top African ceremonies and reached the top of charts with song collaborations produced on the show. Good examples are Sauti Sol and Yemi Alade with Africa; Sauti Sol and Alikiba with Unconditionally Bae, Yuri Da Cunha and Flavour with Sweet La Vida; Dama Do Bling and Victoria Kimani with Taking Over, and Yemi Alade and Nyashinski with Nakupenda. There have also been hit original songs that became successful continental anthems such as Said by Nasty C and Runtown, All I Need to Know by Vanessa Mdee and 2Baba. To bridge the cultural gap on the continent, artistes on the show will visit unique African locations to hang out and discuss the theme of the original song they are going to create and perform. And to give in-depth information to the audience about the artistes, the latter will tour their childhood neighbourhood in the Hood Tour segment. Tim Horwood, Coke Studio Africa’s executive creative director says: “This is the biggest music and youth culture property in Africa, and the most distributed with the most talented involved.” Coke Studio is produced in Nairobi and the musicians who feature on the show are picked according to their national popularity and impact on the music scene. This year they drawn from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Nigeria.   The non-competitive music collaboration show is now in season six. TDB, the lead co-arrangers for the new credit line, plan to raise the cash by April. Kampala has been under pressure from France, Italy, South Africa and Rwanda.