Last week, TripAdvisor released the 2019 list of favourite hotels and destinations as voted for by travellers. The 2019 Travelers’ Choice Awards is based on reviews and opinions of people who rate facilities they visited in the past year. Leading on the continent are hotels and destinations in Morocco and Mauritius. At the top of luxury hotels in Africa is Riad Kheirredine in Marrakech. The hotel describes itself as an oasis of tranquility, with a fusion of Moroccan architecture and Italian design. In position four of the top 25 is Bara Resort and Spa in Bwejuu, on the island of Unguja in Zanzibar. The Residence Zanzibar followed closely at position seven. Kenyan luxury hotel Hemingways Nairobi was voted 13th. It was also rated the best hotel in Kenya in two categories — top luxury and top hotel for service. Tanzania took three other spots in the luxury hotels section: Zanzi Resort, Zanzibar (18), Zanzibar White Sand Luxury Villas and Spa (20) and Tulia Zanzibar Unique Beach Resort (21). Hemingways group operations director Ross Evans said the awards are a vote of confidence for Nairobi. “Being among the top hotels in Africa, especially in the luxury and service categories, reaffirms to the world that Nairobi is a world-class destination with hotels that match the quality that a luxury traveller expects to get anywhere in the globe,” he said. On the list of top 25 destinations in Africa, Marrakech was at the top, followed by Zanzibar, Tanzania; Cape Town, South Africa; Fes, Morocco; Essaoiura, Morocco; Nairobi, Kenya; Grand Bay, Mauritius; Arusha, Tanzania and Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. Established in 2002, Travelers’ Choice awards are the highest honour TripAdvisor can bestow. They are the only travel industry awards based on millions of reviews and opinions from travellers around the world, reflecting customer satisfaction, from hotels and accommodation to destinations, attractions, and even brands and products.   Indo Power is not known to trade in or process cashewnuts. Tense relations mar meeting as Burundi seeks resolution of its issues with Kigali.