The African Heritage House on the outskirts of Nairobi, will, on March 3, host the African Twilight show to mark the official Kenya launch of the African Twilight coffee table book by veteran photographers Carol Beckwith and Angela Fisher. The two have completed a 40-year quest traversing the continent documenting the vanishing cultures, ceremonies and rituals of African communities. The African Twilight show is premised on past African Heritage Festivals featuring authentic African accessories and costumes created from handwoven and hand printed textiles of Africa’s disappearing cultures. The costumes and accessories will be provided by Makena Mwiraria who now owns the African Heritage collection. Starting at 6:30pm, the show will feature an evening of fashion, music, short media clips of past African Heritage events, a tribute to recently deceased Heritage Band co-founder Ayub Ogada and finally the book signing by Beckwith and Fisher. Before his passing, Ogada was part of the Twilight show programme and he had been slotted for a live performance with former band members Gido Kibukotsya, Jack Odongo and Francis Njoroge. Since the show must go on, the performance will now be a tribute to Ogada and the organisers have slotted a five-minute screening of a recorded video of Ogada playing his famous song Koth Biro. The masters of ceremony for the show are tourism heavy weight-turned politician Naomi Cidi and radio personality Fareed Khimani. The music and clothes will showcase the best from Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Cameroon, Niger, Guinea, Mali, Madagascar, South Africa and Kenya. US-based Kenyan drums and percussion troupe Jabali Africa and the legendary dancing trio of Rare Watts will be performing. Attendance is by invitation only. The show is sponsored by the Nation Media Group, the Nairobi Serena Hotel, Qatar Airways, the Gina Din Group, Couture, National Museums of Kenya, Stanbic Bank, Ole Sereni Hotel and Carnivore Nairobi.   TDB, the lead co-arrangers for the new credit line, plan to raise the cash by April. Kampala has been under pressure from France, Italy, South Africa and Rwanda.