We have exhibition openings, les vernissages and now — stay calm — something billed as a world premiere. It was of seven wooden statues of stone carriers and one of a woman carrying firewood on her head, made over the past six years by German sculptor Joachim Sauter, and they went on show together for the first time in Lamu on Friday. A string quartet played, a gallery owner and curator from Hamburg gave an opening address, and I am assured there were many oohs, aahs and much applause. Sauter’s eight figures were carved from mahogany, and for this premiere were grouped as a tableau in the courtyard of Lamu Fort. Each a little over life-size, seven of the figures are of the stone carriers from Manda island who heave onto their shoulders the rag coral blocks cut by hand at Maweni and take them down to the jetty. Providing opposing tension to the male figures is the only woman made by Sauter, who decided to show her carrying home the firewood... an interesting cliché not at all likely to enrage feminists and no doubt true in some cases. The artist must have thought it would have been against the spirit of his tableau to show a woman with, for example, a laptop. The sculptor’s intention was clearly to show the stone carriers and the woman either as modern slaves or to highlight the dignity of their labour, or both. The reference to slavery was reinforced by a press release that relates the figures both to the mediaeval church statues of St Christopher (presumably because St Christopher is usually shown bearing the Christ Child on his shoulders) and to the marble sculptures of slaves by Michelangelo. But surely these are comparisons of intent rather than execution. The sheer scale of Sauter’s task and the dedication needed to complete it is enough to give any observer a rush of blood to the head, but to compare these sculptures to delicate lime wood carvings from the 15th century or to anything carved by Michelangelo? Really? Sauter’s figures are well enough carved and appear roughly in anatomical proportion, although some may argue that the heads are a little large. By leaving the chiselled surfaces visible he has added vigour to the work. The figures convey a sense of the men’s strength, but lack the expressionist energy of carvings by Sauter’s compatriot and contemporary Georg Baselitz who, and not incidentally, is a voracious collector of African tribal sculpture. Yet Sauter’s is a substantial group and one that after eight days at the fort will be moved to Kasbah House in Shela Village, where it will remain for several months before what the organisers hope will be a trip to Nairobi and the National Museums of Kenya. Where will they all end up? The scale of the tableau suggests public sculpture so maybe a shopping mall somewhere? If left outdoors even mahogany is liable to split, so possibly they will be cast in bronze for permanent display. Meanwhile they form a provocative group that honours a tough body of men on Manda Island. And a woman who carries firewood on her head, home to the hearth. It will not be the first time that some of the male figures will have been seen in Nairobi. In 2017 two were shown at the One-Off Gallery in Rosslyn as a part of that year’s Lamu Festival transferred from the island. And, coincidentally, another world premiere is currently at the One-Off’s outpost at the Rosslyn shopping mall in Nairobi, where Anita Kavochy is having her first solo exhibition. Kavochy was born, raised and lives in Kibera, and is based at the Maasai Mbili studios near her home. Three years in the making, her exhibition is of seven mixed media paintings on canvas and seven on paper, glazed and framed. The artist’s confident life drawing with its bold sweeps of thick line forms a solid base for her paintings, which explore her personal life and social interactions with friends, colleagues and strangers. Sombre and sonorous, for a first show they punch well above their weight. From newcomer to a vastly experienced artist — and at the main One Off gallery in a show — can be found paintings by the American Olivia Pendergast. Whereas Kavochy is robust, Pendergast is delicate, displaying an impeccable technique of strong pencil drawing underpinning washes of oil that produce a luminescent quality entirely appropriate for her exhibition, called Aura. While Kavochy’s fragments of figures look capable of leaping off the canvas to engage with us, Pendergast’s people with their tiny heads, huge hands and massive slab bodies live entirely within their own alien world. Of late, the artist has begun to decorate her backgrounds with tendrils of flowers and other fey patterns, transforming her subjects into decorative objects stylised out of their skulls, not with the brutal energy that would speak of any investigation of the human condition but with an airy-fairy prettiness that speaks to me of nothing so much as the Pre-Raphaelite yearnings of Kenya’s own Peter Elungat. Mind you, her painting of a cat deserves a world premiere all to itself.   Clashes erupted in the country’s bread basket and imports supply route to Juba. Shadowy Kenyan buyer Indo Power has yet to shell out the money it promised.