Patricia le Gall has spent more than two decades as a marketer, selling innovations and products. Her career began in 1996, at Kodak, holding different positions as she rose through the corporate ladder. In 2003, she moved to German biscuit company Bahlsen as head of marketing. Three years later, Moët Hennessy Diageo France came calling. In May 2018, Patricia joined Hennessy Maison in her new role as Hennessy Business Development Director for Africa and Middle East, Europe and Global Travel Retail. Recently, Hennessy launched a series of new luxury cocktails in an event dubbed Cognac, Cocktails and Conversations in Nairobi. Speaking at the event, Le Gall said that Africa is the fastest growing region for Hennessy, and that Kenya is the third largest market in Africa. “Despite the fact that we are a global brand, it is key for us to be locally relevant. This is the reason why we will continue to invest and develop in East Africa.” She shared more thoughts in an interview. ---------------------------------------- You are not an easy person to find about online. I am discreet, so you would not find much about me online. My work is about the brand, not me personally. How would you introduce yourself? Well, other than what is on my business portfolio, I am also a wife and a mother. I have lived in many places around the world because of my job, but now I am based in Paris. I have been living there for the past two decades and some. What is the most unique thing about your approach to marketing? Cultural relevance. I like building brands and businesses and developing brands in a culturally relevant way. For example Hennessy, we deal with 130 markets world over, but we do not market it the same way in all markets or regions because we want to be culturally relevant. We do not take the same strategy we use in Asia to say Africa or America. You started your career in Kodak, then went to biscuits, then you’re now at Hennessy. That’s quite diverse. My experience has been about sharing good moments together. When you take a picture, it is a good moment, and you want to remember the things that you enjoyed. When you eat biscuits, it is for pleasure. In the spirits industry, it is also about coming together to spend time and experience something special. How was your journey of transition through these three distinct industries? Kodak is American. The Bahlsen company is German, and Hennessy is French. For me, it is a question of adapting to cultures and using that to manage different companies. For Hennessy, the elegance and savoir faire of the French is of high importance. I learnt a lot in my previous jobs that had an Anglo-Saxon influence. From Kodak, for instance, I learnt that being number one should not be taken for granted. There is no guarantee that you will always be in the lead. You have to work to remain there. You have to fight for it. When I was at Kodak, it was number one in the world in the photography industry, but now it has almost collapsed. Hennessy is currently the number one premium spirit above $25. We need to stay relevant. Do you think it’s important to consume the product that you market? Of course. It is key. It is really difficult to market a product if you do not consume it, if you do not feel and understand it. I would not deal with a business that I do not believe in and do not enjoy. How do you drink your Hennessy? I like Hennessy VS with ginger and lime. Now that is a refreshing cocktail. I also like XO over ice. Just one big ice cube. XO is a full bodied and structured cognac. When you serve it over ice, the aromas open up. What brings you to Kenya? I am here to better understand the market so that I can export ideas to the headquarters. And also to meet with partners, and also to tell the stories about Hennessy. Have you been to any other African country during this tour? Before I came here, I was in Tanzania. I intend to be back and see the other East African countries. I would like to bring my family along on one of my visits to East Africa. Any favourite places you would recommend? Dar es Salaam. I loved the pace of life, the food, the gentility of the town. I haven’t seen much of Kenya, so I’d like to come back. When you are not working, what are you likely to be doing? Spending time with my family. Going to art exhibitions. I take photographs as a hobby. I run to keep in shape. I like partying, so I need to compensate for that. What is on your nightstand? There is a bottle of water, and my phone. Architecture and Design magazine. And a book, most likely something by Guy de Maupassant.   President Felix Tshisekedi took power in January but struggled to form a government.