The Uganda Press Photo Award (UPPA) is calling for entries from photojournalists and photographers for the 2019 competition. The overall winner of the eighth annual photography competition will take home a professional camera, the Canon EOS 5D Mark IV — which will come with an EF 24-70mm lens — as well as an opportunity to showcase their work at the UPPA annual exhibition. Participants can submit their images (published or unpublished) to six categories: News, Daily Life, Environment, People, Sports and Urban. Over the past seven years, UPPA has celebrated Ugandan photojournalism and created a platform where Ugandan photographers can connect with other professionals, locally and internationally, as well as exchange and learn styles and perspectives through different programmes. Meanwhile, the 2019 East African Photography Award (EAPA) is also open for submissions. For the second year running, UPPA is reaching out to photographers in Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania to share their talent and perspectives through EAPA. The award seeks to encourage regional dialogue and exchange, as well as raise the level of competition and allow visual storytellers within the EAC to place their work within a larger frame of reference. EAPA calls for the submission of a maximum of two documentary stories with 10 to 20 images. The images submitted should show a clear narrative that is improved on, but not diluted by the inclusion of multiple images. The winner of the regional story category will receive a Canon EOS RP 80D with a 24-105mm lens and a lens adapter. They will also be invited to Kampala for the prize-giving and exhibition opening ceremony in October, and participate in the professionals’ week that will follow. All submissions must be done online on UPPA’s website. The deadline for submissions is August 1. This year’s international panel of judges includes Jide Adeniyi-Jones, Yasuyoshi Chiba, Benjamin Füglister, Georgina Goodwin, Lekgetho James Makola, Cynthia R. Matonhodze, Frédéric Noy, Ley Uwera and Sarah Waiswa. The awards are organised by UPPA with support from Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung Uganda and Canon Central and North Africa, among other sponsors.   Amendments that the govt tabled are different from those recommended by the supreme court. Allegations of trying to block the president from running in 2020 saw the sacking of Makamba.