The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) want a new government for Guinea Bissau sworn in by Wednesday to avoid prolonging a power vacuum in the country. On Sunday Ecowas overturned a decision by Parliament that the speaker be the interim president until election in November. It installed President José Mário Vaz to be a figurehead leader until then with government affairs being run by a Cabinet that Prime Minister Aristides Gomes would appoint. Bretton Woods institutions have threatened to suspend $6m in aid to Sao Tome and Principe unless its government urgently brings spiralling debt under control. Xiang-Ming-Li, the country’s IMF representative, was quoted on radio saying the government should end subsidies on fuel, reduce defence spending and commercialise the state-owned electricity company in order to balance books. The two islands of 200,000 people recorded the highest improvement in the 2015 human development index and is dependent on aid and exports of cocoa, copra, coffee, sugar, bananas and palm oil fpr foreign exchange. Tunisia's 92-year-old President Beji Caid Essebsi was released from hospital on Monday with the presidency saying he had recovered after being hospitalised last week. Concerned over the country's political stability, politicians and social media users have been calling for transparency on the president's health since he was hospitalised last Thursday. The country's first democratically elected president, Essebsi came to power in 2014, three years after the Arab Spring that sparked revolts and regime changes in several countries in the region. Ex-general Mohamed Ould Ghazouani was declared the official winner of the June 22 presidential elections in Mauritania that opposition candidates claim were unfair. The Constitutional Council, the final authority on Mauritania's founding law, rejected an opposition challenge and confirmed the CENI electoral commission's tally that Ghazouani won with a 52 per cent majority. He will now ascend to the presidency on August 2, taking over from close ally Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz who served the maximum two five-year terms. It will mark Mauritania's first democratic transition of power since independence from France in 1960. Zimbabwe has run out of hard currency to pay for special imported paper, ink and other raw materials used in the making of passports. The registrar-general's office said Zimbabweans in need of foreign travel faced an indefinite wait with urgent applications required to be submitted at the end of 2020. That leaves many citizens wishing to escape the worsening economic conditions under President Emmerson Mnangagwa literally trapped at home, with the backlog now at 280,000. UK and Kenyan authorities are working to establish the identity of a stowaway who fell off a Kenya Airways plane as it approached landing at London’s Heathrow Airport on Sunday night. A post-mortem is to be done on the man who was seen falling off by a plane spotter who alerted the police. His body narrowly missed a man sleeping in his Clapham backyard. In 2012 Jose Matada of Mozambique died after falling from a Heathrow bound flight from Angola. Billionaire Warren Buffett has donated $3.6 billion worth of Berkshire Hathaway stock to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and four other charities. Buffett, 88, nicknamed the "Oracle of Omaha," said the other beneficiaries were Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation, the Sherwood Foundation, the Howard G. Buffett Foundation and Novo Foundation. To date, he has given about 45 percent of his 2006 holdings to the five foundations with an estimated value of $34 billion under his plan to donate all his Berkshire shares to philanthropy. Nigeria's high court on Monday issued warrants of arrest for the country's top football officials after they failed to appear in court.At Monday's hearing, the judge ordered an arrest warrant for Nigeria Football Federation Vice presidents Seyi Akinwunmi and Shehu Dikko, executive Ahmed Yusuf and general secretary Mohammed Sanusi. NFF president Amaju Pinnick is in Egypt for the African Cup of Nations tournament despite the on-going criminal case over the embezzlement of $8.4 million and other charges. The money was paid by world football governing body FIFA to Nigeria for participation in the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.   Raphael Ongangi found in Mombasa, his wife confirms. Trade has been severely disrupted since February when Rwanda abruptly closed Katuna border.