A hot, dry wind sang its way across the open savannah, bordered to the west by a range of hills, on top of which she sat. It’s sound was broken by the lethargic lowing of the herd of cattle under Sally’s careful watch. She sat still, immobilised partly by the heat, and partly by the mind-numbing boredom as she watched the cows move painstakingly from one tuft of grass to another; chewing, chewing, stopping to raise their heads in the air, look lazily around and then they go back to feeding. Day in, day out the routine remained the same. The hours stretched into each other and meshed seamlessly into one long, unmemorable haze that repeated itself. She didn’t particularly mind the tedium, it just amazed her how so much time could pass without anything changing, so it seemed no time had passed at all. “Hush,” Sally murmured in the direction of a particularly noisy bull, and it went silent. It was as if they understood her, her gestures, the smallest commands. She’d been taking them out to pasture since she was five, and seven rainy seasons later, there existed an intuitive relationship that eventually develops when creatures spend a fair share of time together. They were a smart, albeit small herd, with a number of hefty bulls, some cows and three cute, fat calves that frolicked around the stoic elders. They were all that was left to her after her parents had been taken by a mysterious disease that had claimed most of the village years ago. Raised by an aunt who had too much to do and too little time, Sally had taken to doing her own thing and it had suited everyone just fine. She was up and out with the first sounds of dawn, the sweet songs of waking birds accompanying her as she led her herd out onto the plains, and back only when the sun had dipped fully behind the hills and the crickets were chirping in full swing. “Moo…Mooo…” “Oh hush, would you?” Sally looked up in irritation at the bull that was testing her patience, then went back to studying the ants crawling about where she sat crosslegged under the shade. They were always busy, doing something, going somewhere…you never saw one idle, they simply stopped for a moment, felt the air with their antennae then moved on. She watched in fascination, losing herself in their tiny world that existed at her feet, wondering if… “Mooo!”Sally’s head jerked up and she was up on her feet as she tried to figure out what was happening. There was a great plume of dust rising at the base of the hill. Her animals were scattered across the hillside and down into the valley. The melee was farthest from her, where the animals that had wandered far from the hilly range into the grasslands below had been grazing. Sally squinted into the cloud of dust and stampeding animals, “Was it a lion? Or worse, a pack of hyenas?” “Ya! Ya!” Men’s voices came from within the dust cloud. Rustlers. Sally inhaled sharply as she realised what was happening. Her inheritance, the only thing she had in the world, was being stolen. The initial stirrings of fear were replaced with a fearsome anger that blazed intensely, matching the heat of the midday African sun. Gripping her herding stick, Sally breathed in deeply, filling her lungs, stretching them out until she thought they would burst; then let loose.“Aaaali-li-li-li-li-li-li-lii!”Her shrill cry sounded like beacon, piercing through the confusion and panic amongst the animals, settling them for a second as every head, man and beast, turned in her direction. Now, she had their attention. “Aaaali-li-li-li-li-li-li-lii!” she cried out again, not a spilt second after her last breath ended. The animals were roused to motion; they had been called and they came, rushing up the hill, their initial fright now dispelled by the small figure standing at the crest of the hill under a sparse thorn tree, their leader whom they had come to follow and respect. But the mass of animals bellowing and making their way up the hill away from them roused the men to motion too. “Get them! Quick!” “There! That one… and the calf!” Sally, tensed physically yet steady inside, watched the fracas at the bottom of the hill. Three men on horseback were roping her animals with dexterity, pulling one then another unlucky animal back down the slope and corralling them so they couldn’t escape. Seeing how brutally they yanked the poor creatures necks with their ropes, watching them raise their whips again and again, Sally lost it. She knew each animal, and they weren’t just animals to her. They represented so much more, especially now that she was about to lose them. Not hesitating to think too long, Sally raised her stick once more and let out her most blood-curdling shriek, tand launched herself at break-neck speed down the hill. At first, nothing seemed to happen. Just a half-crazed girl shrieking and running down the hill. She was watched in shocked silence by animal and man alike. Then, the bulls that had been grazing at the hilltop, followed suit. The animals rushing up the hill turned around, stampeding in tandem back down with her. The men didn’t stand a chance. Their horses buckled in fear as the ground literally shook beneath their feet from the heavy hooved creatures swarming towards them. They took off, their riders hanging on for dear life, one thrown off his saddle and crushed underfoot, to tell the tale of the crazy girl with a pack of even crazier cows. “She speaks to them, I swear it!” “They had fire in their eyes…them and her…” The sun was still hovering over the hills when Sally walked into the humble homestead where her aunt was bent over a sputtering flame, blowing gently to kindle the fire for the evening meal, her lips pursed and brow furrowed in concentration. “You’re back early,” her aunt said, sitting up and feeding the fire with small pieces of wood. “Something wrong?” Sally paused, contemplating narrating the ordeal, then decided against it. She didn’t want to risk being banned from taking her herd out. What would she do in the hut all day? No, there was danger in the wild, but there was freedom too. “Nothing, just tired,” she replied.   Amendments that the govt tabled are different from those recommended by the supreme court. Allegations of trying to block the president from running in 2020 saw the sacking of Makamba.