We will be approaching six months since the Riverside attack, and what measures can we visibly see being taken when it comes to preventive preparation? The fact that attackers were not the stereotypical individuals of Somali heritage, that this time there were individuals who belonged to the president’s county, should be a worrying sign. Yet the very reason for our turbulent ethnic issues is that we consider particular tribes to be more advantaged. However, we have witnessed that youth even from advantaged localities are having a sense of being marginalised, so what of others? A few weeks ago, a major university held its graduation ceremony, and there was a family celebrating their child’s achievements in a very fancy hotel. The family was excited of course of this young woman’s high attainment, graduating with honours, and there were loud cheers every now and then. I could not help but cringe. Every time I see youth in their graduation gowns, it is always difficult for me to say congratulations to them. I feel as though that remark is far from the truth. The fact that those gowns are black hints at the funeral future awaiting you. Instead of feeling excited for them, it is more of a “woiye,” sense of pity and worry. I say a silent prayer that they transition into the big bad world smoothly. I am actually scared for them... Youth will get more and more vulnerable to radicalisation, especially as they continue to get frustrated. When we think entrepreneurship, ideas that are often put on the table are boda boda ventures, for instance, which are not terrible, just too short term. A young person will be excited about owning a motorcycle, and many of these riders are young. It is a risky business and some will eventually want to grow their career to something else or more. I know boda boda riders who have degrees, they are there because there are no alternatives. Obviously, if other opportunities open up, they will drop it like a hot potato. With the job market being so sluggish, it currently makes more sense to start your own business than look for employment in these times. However, there are those who work tirelessly to make ends meet against all sorts of resistance and obstacles. Gikomba, for instance, or second-hand clothing are a major business asset for many young people. The amount of markets and streets that are filled with second-hand clothes are bustling with sellers and buyers. Another familiar scenario is youth carrying their merchandise in sacks, as they look from side to side, for any glimmer of the city council pouncing so that they take off the moment they are spotted. We need to remember that no one does that because it is fun...They have no choice. Who would want to play a cat-and-mouse game daily? It is frustrating, risky and time wasting. No one would want to sign up for that, but the fact that they try every day to sell on the walkways, in this condition, is a clear indication that there are no alternatives, so they are desperate. It is easier to attract young people to terrorist groups when they feel marginalised. These are youth who often feel that there is absolutely nothing else left. More recently, we are seeing graduates joining extremist groups, no longer just poorly educated youth from slum areas. There should be a strong push toward creating conducive environments for youth to grow businesses. Those that are working should be enhanced...such as Gikomba. This includes searching for ways of making a 24-hour economy in some cities a reality and a priority. A lot of people make good sales in the night, as people who are coming out of clubs at ungodly hours may decide to do a bit of shopping. Some may want to avoid a crowd and shop during that time. Or simply allowing people to sell their products at certain hours on certain streets, or creating spaces for them. I understand that there are markets being built because of that, to reduce the amount of hawkers – but some of these buildings are a distance from the CBD, they may not attract customers because of the location. There can be more organised ways to create conducive environments. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is executive director of Siasa Place. Twitter: @NerimaW   The key issue of forming a new governing body still unresolved. We have done our best to govern according to the liberation ideals, President says.