Boeing has announced a $100 million "initial investment" to communities and families affected by the crashes of 737 MAX planes operated by Ethiopian Airlines and Lion Air. The two clashes within six months of each other killed 346 passengers and crew who would derive "hardship and living expenses" from the "contrition" account. There is also a provision for boosting economic development in regions affected by the crashes as Boeing, which grounded the faulty planes, grapples with lawsuits arising from the disasters. The World Bank has upgraded the status of Comoros, Senegal and Zimbabwe to lower middle income economies after a marked jump in their gross national income per capita. The status change brings to 20 the number of African countries with GNI per capita - a country's wealth divided by its population - of between $1,026 to $3,995. Comoros GNI PC has jumped from $760 to $1,320, Senegal from $950 to $1,410 and Zimbabwe from $910 to $1,790 largely from revision of national account methods. The new status does not alter the countries' lending terms as they will continue being eligible for concessional loans under the International Development Association. Guinea Bissau cabinet finally sworn in Interim Guinea Bissau President José Mário Vaz on Wednesday swore in a new government picked by Prime Minister Aristides Gomes proposal, ending more than three months of political turmoil. The government of 16 ministers and 15 state secretaries has seven new faces, eight women and was named within an ultimatum given by Ecowas to end the power vacuum in the country. Ms Suzi Barbosa will be the minister of foreign affairs and communities, Ms Nelvina Barreto forest and agriculture minister; and Ms Rute Monteirojustice and human rights minister Government, military to stay out of Algeria talks Algeria's interim President Abdelkader Bensalah has said the state and the military will not participate in talks to pave way for an elected government. Bensalah said the dialogue would be led by national independent figures who have credibility and are not linked to any party, adding that state agencies would remain neutral. With his interim mandate ending on July 9, Bensalah warned parties against unrealistic demands that would plunge the country into a constitutional vacuum. Liberia's hospitals battle deadly shortages Liberia's health sector is on its knees with shortages of medicine, beds, equipment, ambulances and reliable electricity after years of battering by civil war and the Ebola epidemic. The government has not equipped hospitals for a year, hospitals are in debt and annual health expenditure per person is about $100, according to the World Health organisation. The country has less than one regional or district hospital per 100,000 people and less than 10 hospital beds per 10,000 people in the country of 4.7 million people. Authorities in Switzerland have handed suspended sentences of more than three months to at least five members of Cameroon President Paul Biya's security team. The five were arrested on Tuesday in Geneva for an alleged assault on a journalist who was covering clashes between Biya's guards and protesters outside the Geneva Intercontinental hotel last week. Biya is in Switzerland for a brief stay in Europe during which it is believed he was engaged by mediators seeking to unlock dialogue on the humanitarian crisis in Anglophone Cameroon.   The key issue of forming a new governing body still unresolved. We have done our best to govern according to the liberation ideals, President says.