Six motoring enthusiasts, among them Stephen Warui and Daniel Biwott, will drive their Concours cars from Nairobi to Kampala to compete in the 2019 Uganda Vintage and Classic Auto Show (a Concours d’Elegance event) scheduled for July 27. The participants, driving three Volkswagens, two Mercedes Benz and a Datsun 1200 are looking forward to bringing prizes home. Last year, Tor Allan with his 1966 Peugeot 404 made motor sport history by becoming the first competitor from outside Uganda to win the Uganda Vintage and Classic Auto Show. His Peugeot 404 is a regular winner of the up to 1800cc touring car class and is one of the best machines each year in the annual CBA Africa Concours d’Elegance held at the Nairobi racecourse. Warui is no stranger to the Uganda Auto Show having participated several times in the past. He will be showing his 1968 Volkswagen Kombi for the third time at the event. Last year, the Kombi won second place in the class for utility cars and he is hopeful about bringing home the top prize in this class. Motoring enthusiast Daniel Biwott a founder member of the Mercedes Club will be proudly showing his 1991 Mercedes Benz W124 at the Uganda Show. This is the fifth time he will be participating in the event, but the 1991 Mercedes will be making its debut there. His father owned a Mercedes W124 saloon and the family car made a lasting impression on Biwott who resolved that one day he would own of a Mercedes W124. Peter Wanday, the chairman of the Alfa Romeo Owners Club that organises the Concours d’Elegance in Kenya, said, “Last year four cars from Uganda participated in our event together with 15 bikers who rode from Uganda to be at the Nairobi Racecourse. “The reciprocal visit to Uganda by Kenyan enthusiasts will strengthen both countries’ events. There will be increased public awareness about the Concours tradition of recognising and rewarding the owners of well-kept cars and motorcycles.” The Concours d’Elegance will be held at the Nairobi Racecourse on September 29. Among the Ugandan entries already listed for the Nairobi event are Leslie Carvell’s 1970 Volkswagen Beetle. For several years, Leslie has driven her crimson coloured Volkswagen from her base in Jinja to Nairobi for the event. She has taken home several prizes and donates her winnings to conservation programmes. Kakooza Wazir, another regular at the Kenya event, will be showing three cars. These are 1984 Panther Kallista, 1980 Toyota Mark II and 1996 Mitsuoka Viewt. Last year, the Toyota Mark II won first prize in the class for touring cars from 2,001cc to 2,500cc. This Saturday’s event will be the seventh Uganda Vintage and Classic Auto Show. It will feature several classes for all makes and types of cars, pickups, SUV’s and utility vehicles made in 1994, or earlier. The cars will be spread out in the fine grounds of the Sheraton Hotel for the judges to assess.   Amendments that the govt tabled are different from those recommended by the supreme court. Allegations of trying to block the president from running in 2020 saw the sacking of Makamba.