Kenya will take stock of the number of intersex people during a national census set for next month in a big win for a group that has suffered discrimination and embarrassment in equal measure. In one case a Supreme Court judge has now apologised for ordering an intersex person to be detained in a cell for males where the person was molested. The recognition of a third gender is expected to lead to development of policies sensitive to the plight of intersexuals who are estimated to constitute between 1.7 per cent to three per cent of births. That would put their number in Kenya at about 1.4 million people. Cameroon has moved to dispel fears that revolutionary separatist leader Mancho Bibixy and 117 other people arrested with him were dead. Communications minister Rene Emmanuel Sadi said in a tweet that the detainees were being held in one of the country's prisons. There had been speculation that Mr Bibixy had been killed in a mutiny at the Kondegui Maximum Security Prison A second case of Ebola has been detected on Democratic Republic of Congo's border with Rwanda, raising fears the deadly illness could spread. More than 1,600 people have died of Ebola in DR Congo since the outbreak began in August 2018 prompting the World Health Organization (WHO) to declared the crisis a global health emergency last week. Rwanda has set up an Ebola treatment centre and is preparing 23 isolation centres in case of any infections. Mozambique's main opposition party and former rebel movement Renamo began disarming more than 5,200 members of its armed wing on Tuesday as part of a prospective peace deal that will see the fighters re-integrated into the country's armed forces. In a symbolic ceremony attended by Renamo leader Ossufo Momade, government representatives and international military experts, four fighters turned in their weapons. They then officially left their base in the central Gorongosa mountains and headed to a special military centre set up to help them prepare to be reintegrated back into society. Sudanese authorities Tuesday ordered all schools to suspend classes indefinitely after crowds of students launched demonstrations against the killing of six protesters including five pupils at a rally in a central town. Four high-school students were shot dead and more than 60 wounded, some by snipers, when they rallied in Al-Obeid against fuel and bread shortages. The killings just a day before protest leaders and military generals were to discuss the remaining aspects of installing civilian rule forced the talks to be cancelled. Algeria's army chief Tuesday ruled out accepting any pre-conditions to launching talks to end the country's political crisis, saying there was "no more time to lose". Algerians have taken to the streets every Tuesday and Friday since February demanding political change, leading to the ouster of veteran president Abdelaziz Bouteflika on April 2. But efforts to move towards new presidential elections have bogged down as protesters have continued to demand the departure of key regime figures and an overhaul of the North African country's political system. About 130 inmates have been on hunger strike in an Egyptian prison for more than six weeks in protest at inhumane conditions and denial of family visits, Amnesty International said Wednesday. Many of those on strike in southern Cairo's Al-Aqrab (scorpion) maximum security prison were arrested "more than two years ago and have not been allowed a single visit from their families or lawyers," the rights group said. Since the action was launched on June 17 authorities have retaliated against detainees by "beating them, applying electric shocks with tasers", Amnesty said citing a statement issued by prisoners. A former journalist and critic of Senegal's President Macky Sall was in custody on Tuesday waiting to hear if he will be charged with "offending the head of state", his lawyer said. Adama Gaye, who describes himself as an activist for "justice, transparency and progress", has written numerous articles accusing the Dakar authorities of mismanagement, particularly in the oil and gas sector which is set for major expansion in the coming years. He was called in for questioning on Monday by Dakar's criminal investigation division for "putting out stories contrary to good morals" and offending President Sall through posts touching on his private life. Mauritania has released heikh Ould Mohamed Ould Mkheitir, 36, a blogger who drew international attention after being accused of blasphemy. After his death sentence was commuted to a jail term on appeal he remained in detention even after servicing the sentence as authorities said they feared for his life in the fervently Muslim country. Mkheitir was confirmed to have entered Senegal on Monday from where he could join his parents who fled Mauritania for France in 2016. Three suspects in the massacre of 46 civilians in Central African Republic will be tried before a special court created to investigate human rights abuses, a prosecutor in Bangui said on Tuesday. It is one of the first cases to go before the Special Criminal Court which has gotten off to a slow start and needs to intensify its efforts to prosecute war crimes. The massacre took place on May 21 when members of the 3R armed group, which handed over the suspects, launched a series of attacks on villages near the northwestern town of Paoua. Air France-KLM said Tuesday that it would buy 60 of Airbus's new A220-300 planesas the airline moves to modernise its fleet in order to reduce operating costs and rein in carbon emissions. The company also revealed that it would cease operating its massive Airbus A380 superjumbos, saying they were no longer cost-effective in the highly competitive travel markets. The airline did not reveal the value of the huge order which would be worth $5.5 billion (4.9 billion euros) at list prices, though airlines usually negotiate significant discounts. The NBA-backed Basketball Africa League (BAL) has named host cities for its inaugural season, with Kigali, Rwanda, given the first semi-final and championship games. Cairo, Egypt; Dakar, Senegal; Lagos, Nigeria; Luanda, Angola; Rabat, Morocco and a Tunisian city, Tunis or Monastir, were announced as the sites for BAL regular-season games in the first partnership outside North America. The BAL, featuring 12 club teams from across Africa, is set to begin play in March 2020 with Nike and the Jordan Brand providing uniforms and other gear for the teams.   The ex-president failed to appear in court Wednesday for the first session. M-Pesa has been the key driver of the company’s profit growth in recent years.