African Union and Ethiopian mediators invited Sudan's ruling generals and protest leaders to resume talks on Wednesday as they seek a breakthrough on creating a new governing body for the country. The call to attend talks comes as tension remains high between the two sides after a deadly crackdown on June 3 on a protest camp that killed dozens and wounded hundreds in Khartoum. African Union envoy Mohamed El Hacen Lebatt and his Ethiopian counterpart Mahmoud Dirir did not say where the talks would be held but they have previously been at the Ethiopia Embassy. UN investigators said Tuesday Burundi must take "drastic" steps to boost democratic freedoms if it wants elections scheduled for next year to be considered credible. In an update to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, the Commission of Inquiry for Burundi head Doudou Diene warned that restrictions on civil liberties continued unchecked. Last month, authorities suspended the country's last independent civil rights group, accusing it of "disturbing peace and public order." Burundi's ambassador to the UN, Renovat Tabu, dismissed the commission for focusing on "political considerations." The Speaker of South Sudan's National Legislative Assembly Antony Lino Makana has made a bizarre order that MPs should not speak to the media or the public without his permission. He accused some legislators of speaking outside Parliament on behalf of the assembly "without authorisation" saying he was the body's spokesman. The South Sudan constitution protects free speech and MPs are immune from prosecution on utterances related to their roles. In another affront on free speech the South Sudan Bar Association has threatened to sue journalists who cover the activities of its rivals Ethiopian lawmakers on Tuesday appointed an activist once jailed for conspiracy to lead the national human rights commission.The appointment adds more credibility to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's push for democratic reforms since being elected in 2018. "Independent, credible and strong democratic institutions play a vital role in ensuring multiparty democracy and respect for human rights," Abiy's office said. Police clashed with Ethiopian-Israelis protesting over the killing of a young boy who was shot dead on Sunday by an off-duty policeman. The demonstrators also complained of marginalisation and victimisation and, according to the Jerusalem Post, 47 police officers were injured and 60 protesters arrested. Protesters said they would do anything to stop "police from killing people because of their skin colour" amid appeals from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for calm. Algerian parliamentary president Mouad Bouchareb has quitafter prolonged demands for his removal by protesters who saw him as a pillar of the ruling elite. Bouchareb bowed out on Tuesday, three months after President Abdelaziz Bouteflikarresigned under pressure from protesters over corruption, cronyism and economic hardships. His exit was also forced by politicians backing the protesters and a new speaker will be elected in 15 days. Nearly 40 migrants were killed in a Tuesday night air strike on Tajoura, a Tripoli suburb, after their detention centre was caught up in the fight for the Libyan Capital between General Khalifa Haftar and government forces. Emergency services personnel said 70 others were wounded in the hangar sheltering 120 migrants which was directly hit. UN backed government forces accused Haftar's forces, which admitted launching a series of attacks in Tripoli and Tajoura, of the "precise, premeditated" attack. Zambia and Zimbabwe will start building the $4 billion Batoka Gorge hydropower dam across the Zambezi River next year, hoping to reduce power shortages of up to 19 hours a day. The Zambezi River Authority said a developer of the 2,400 megawatts dam situated 50 kilometres downstream of the Victoria Falls would be picked this year. General Electric of the US and Power Construction Corporation of China have been tipped for the job which would be on a "build-operate-transfer" funding model. A coalition of East African civil society groups has served Rwanda and Uganda with notices of a complaint at a regional court over trade losses incurred from a border dispute between the two countries. The three civil society groups said they had filed a complaint with the East African Court of Justice on behalf of communities along the border demanding reparations for their losses.In a statement, the coalition said the blockade contravened the East African Community Treaty on freedom of trade and movement over the border. Madagascar has joined an exclusive club of Caviar producers with Rova Caviar, a pioneering enterprise, earning $1.4 million from a tonne of the product last year. The island becomes Africa's first source of caviar, fish eggs eaten with starters in high end hotels, joining the likes of China, Italy and France in a world market of only 340 tonnes a year. Madagascar's caviar is being sold to neighbouring Mauritius, Seychelles and Reunion at $1.44 per gramme, a bargain considering a kilogramme of the costliest caviar from Iran regularly fetches $25 per gramme. The United Arab Emirates said Tuesday it had decided to lift a decades-old cap on foreign ownership at 49 per cent and allow full foreign control of business ventures. UAE vice president and prime minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashed Al-Maktoum said 122 economic activities including agriculture, manufacturing, renewable energy, e-commerce, transportation, arts, construction and entertainment were now open. The seven Sheikhdoms that comprise the UAE, however, will have discretion on own ceilings for foreign ownership of key business sectors. Dubai, the most famous of them, circumvented the rule by establishing free trade zones. The international Monetary Fund has picked David Lipton as its temporary managing director as Christine Lagarde goes through the process of becoming President of the European Central Bank. The European Council nominated Ms Lagarde, 63, on Tuesday to replace Mario Draghi, whose single, eight-year term ends in November, prompting some backlash on social media over her integrity. In December 2016 a French court convicted Ms Lagarde over her role in a controversial payment of $452 million to President Nicolas Sarkozy's friend when she was finance minister in 2008.   Rashid Charles Mberesero, a Tanzanian, gets life sentence. Owner Ottapathu's fight with Botswana ex-president Festus Mogae leaves Choppies Enterprises