Kenya officials arrested in $210m Italian firm payments' scandal Kenya Finance Minister Henry Rotich was arrested on Monday morning together with other officials over corruption involving the proposed $630 million construction of two dams. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said Mr Rotich, Treasury Permanent Secretary Kamau Thugge and officials of the Kerio Valley Development Authority, the implementing agency, would be charged with fraud. It is alleged that broke Italian firm CMC di Ravenna was paid more than $210 million for the construction of the 'ghost' Kimwarer and Aror dams in the Rift Valley even before a feasibility study was done. DR Congo authorities ban Kinshasa rallies over tensions DR Congo authorities have banned political rallies this week in the capital Kinshasa because of tensions between supporters of President Felix Tshisekedi and those of former leader Joseph Kabila, police said Sunday. Tensions rose in the capital after the youth wing of Tshisekedi's Democracy and Social Progress party (UDPS) announced it would hold a protest against the candidacy of a former justice minister for the senate presidency. In response, the pro-Kabila Red Berets movement said it would hold a counter-march to support the candidacy of Alexis Thambwe, who is considered by many a hardliner from the Kabila regime. S.African leader slams 'flawed' graft report, turns to the courts South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday came out fighting against a public prosecutor's finding that he misled Parliament over a $36,000 donation to his campaign in 2017. The country's Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane said President Ramaphosa should not have rushed to respond to a question in November over the donation without having all the facts. The president initially said the money was a consultancy fee payment to his son before admitting it was a political donation. He now says he will go to court. Egypt chides BA for 'unilateral' decision to ground flights Egypt has accused British Airways of suspending flights to the country on Saturday over insecurity without consulting the authorities. Civil aviation minister Younes al-Masri said in a meeting with the UK ambassador Geoffrey Adams on Sunday during which it was agreed that both sides work to resolve the matter. German carrier Lufthansa, which had also suspended flights to Cairo from Munich and Frankfurt on Saturday without giving a reason, resumed operations Sunday. Libya halts loading at key oil terminal as pipeline closed Libya's National Oil Company has stopped loading crude at a key over circumstances it declared were beyond its control following a pipeline closure on Friday. "This is the result of an unlawful Sharara pipeline valve closure by an unidentified group between Hamada and the Zawiya port, resulting in production being suspended," it said when declaring a force majeure. Al-Sharara, about 900 kilometres (560 miles) south of Tripoli, produces 315,000 barrels per day, nearly one third of Libya's crude output but is frequently rendered in-operational by militias. Nigerian serviceman returns lost $41,000 in cash A member of Nigeria's air force has returned a parcel to its owner that contained $41,000in cash, earning praise from the authorities struggling to clean the image of the country's transit ports. The airforce said Bashir Umar, a serviceman, was on routine patrol at Kano airport, northern Nigeria, when he found parcel. He will be rewarded for his honesty as were two security guards and a cleaner for returning money and other valuables lost by passengers last year.   Activists from the Sidama ethnic group were set to declare their own federal state on Thursday. President says tasks at the ministry were being handled in a sluggish manner.