A lawyer for former South African president Jacob Zuma told a corruption inquiry on Friday that Zuma would not take part in the inquiry further because he felt that he was being questioned unfairly. “Chair, we are here today to say we will take no further part in these proceedings,” lawyer Muzi Sikhakhane told the inquiry. He said Zuma had been subject to “relentless cross-examination.” Barrick Gold Corp (ABX.TO) has agreed to buy out fellow shareholders in Acacia Mining (ACAA.L) in a deal that values the firm at 951 million pounds, ending a two-month standoff between the world’s second biggest gold miner and its Africa unit. Barrick had spun off Acacia into a separate company in 2010, but owns about 64% of the company. The deal will offer Acacia shareholders, as well as special dividends on Acacia exploration properties and deferred cash consideration dividends, 0.168 Barrick shares per Acacia share, implying a value of about 232 pence per share, the miner said. The World Health Organization on Thursday withdrew a report that said an Ebola patient may have entered Rwanda, suggesting the deadly virus could spread to that country for the first time. Thursday’s report said the woman was suspected of going to the Congolese city of Goma and then into neighbouring Rwanda while suffering from Ebola, which is highly contagious and spreads through bodily fluids. The report said health workers were struggling to track down people with whom she may have had contact in the market. But many of them refused to cooperate, believing she had died from witchcraft or an abortion. The reports were unusually detailed and candid about investigations of ongoing cases and were published without the knowledge of WHO headquarters in Geneva, which said late on Thursday that several of the reports had been removed. The website where they were posted was also disabled. The album, The Lion King: The Gift, that Beyoncé produced and curated has been released. The track list features African stars such as Burna Boy, Wizkid and Shatta Wale, as well as songs from Kendrick Lamar, Jay-Z, Childish Gambino and Pharrell. The US musician had earlier called the album a "love letter to Africa" adding that she "wanted to make sure we found the best talent from Africa". The album also includes Beyoncé's previously released single, Spirit, which opens with Swahili lyrics. South African soldiers were deployed to gang-ridden Cape Town suburbs on Thursday to help quell escalating violence that has killed hundreds this year and that officials have likened to a war zone, a Reuters cameraman and community activists said. Bloodshed over the past seven months in mainly poor black and mixed-race areas has killed more than 2,000 people, almost half gang-related, Western Cape provincial officials said. The South African National Defence Force said last Friday it would deploy a battalion with support elements to communities in a vast area called the Cape Flats, where high rates of unemployment and drug abuse have fuelled gang activity.   The $680m project will deliver 310MW of renewable power to the national grid. Police arrest individuals who took part in the violence in Sidama that resulted in loss of life.