Ethiopia on Monday planted more than 350 million trees in a day under President Abiy Ahmed's Green Legacy initiative which aims to counter the effects of deforestation and climate change. The initiative targets to plant four billion trees in the country of 100 million people who have in the recent past borne the brunt of recurrent droughts. According to the UN, Ethiopia's forest coverage declined has declined tenfold from 35 per cent to four per cent in the past century. South African telecom giant MTN Group has been granted approval from the Central Bank of Nigeria to offer mobile money services in Africa's most populous country. The licence to MTN subsidiary Yello Digital Financial Services Limited follows the listing in May of MTN Nigeria on the Nigeria Stock Exchange. The licensing is in line with Nigeria's pledge last year to allow telcos to provide banking services as part of financial inclusion to people without bank accounts. The US Justice Department announced Monday the arrest of two refugees from Somalia who were allegedly planning to travel to Egypt to join the Islamic State group. Ahmed Mahad Mohamed, 21, and Abdi Yemani Hussein, 20, originally attracted the attention of investigators on social media last August when Mohamed expressed a desire to travel to Syria or Egypt to join Islamic State and become a martyr. They later told an undercover FBI agent whom they believed was an IS follower that they wanted to "kill so many people" and "behead those kuffar," or infidels, and become notorious around the world. They were charged with conspiring to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization, which can bring up to 20 years in prison. Sudan declares curfew in North Kordofan Sudanese authorities have imposed an indefinite curfew in North Kordofan as chaos erupted in the state following the killing of fiveprotesters on Monday. In a statement, North Kordofan acting governor Alsadig Altybe Abdullah Altybe on Monday evening declared a 9pm-6am the curfew as more demonstrations over the deaths were planned “This decision will include the entire cities of the state including Al-Obeid, Um Rawaba, Al-Rahad, bara and Abu Dakana, aimed at saving the lives of citizens in the state,” the statement says. Nigerian court delays bail ruling for detained Shiite leader A Nigerian court on Monday postponed until next week a ruling on whether to let a detained pro-Iranian Shiite cleric, whose case has sparked bloody clashes, seek medical care abroad, prosecutors said. Ibrahim Zakzaky, leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), was arrested in 2015 under a crackdown on followers in the northern city of Zaria. The IMN, which was banned on Sunday, has staged repeated rallies demanding Zakzaky's release, leading to violence that has left dozens dead. Morocco's King Mohammed VI has marked 20 years on the throne by pardoning thousands of prisoners, including some from the "Hirak" protest movement that rocked the country in 2016. On the eve of the royal anniversary on Tuesday, an official statement said 4,764 people were to be pardoned including some detained during the months of protests in the long-marginalised northern Rif region. The Al-Hirak al-Shaabi, or "Popular Movement", was sparked by the death of a fisherman but soon spiralled into demands for more development and action against corruption and unemployment. A drug dealer who bought 100 quadrillion (1,000 trillion) of out-of-circulation Zimbabwe bank notes in June 2018 as part of a money laundering scheme has pleaded guilty of trafficking narcotics. Richard Castro of Florida now faces decades in jail when his sentencing comes up on October 25, 2019 even after surrendering $4.16 million earned through the illicit activities. Castro made his fortune by illegally dealing opioids, including fentanyl and carfentanil which are stronger than heroin on online markets accessed via a special web browser. Later buyers made purchases through an encrypted e-mail and were required to pay $104 in Bitcoin to be guided where to collect their contraband. German chemical and pharmaceutical giant Bayer said Tuesday it is facing 18,400 US legal cases over glyphosate, a key herbicide ingredient that plaintiffs say caused grave illnesses like cancer. The company said the cases had been filed by July 11, 2019, assuring investors that it had solid defences against the claims.   Those in public schools earn between five dollars and $22 per month. Hundreds of schoolchildren demonstrate in Khartoum against the shooting dead of 5 pupils.