Leaders from four southern African countries held talks in Botswana on Tuesday to better manage the world's largest concentration of elephants, amid growing concerns over poaching, loss of habitat, and conflict with humans. Botswana President Mokgweetsi Masisi, whose country has Africa's largest elephant population, told his fellow leaders that it was time the region comes up with a common strategy to manage the huge mammals. At the end of the one-day meeting, the leaders resolved to "effectively lobby the international community" to relax the global ban on ivory trade to a strictly-controlled form of trade. The World Health Organization on Tuesday urged a dramatic broadening of Ebola vaccination in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the latest outbreak of the virus has killed more than 1,000 people. More than 111,000 people have already received the protective jab, through a ring vaccination approach aimed at immunising every person who has been in contact with the sick, and all of their contacts. But this has not proved enough to stop the highly contagious virus from spreading in regions of DRC wracked with insecurity. Ethiopia's clothes factory workers, producing items for top fashion brands including Guess, H&M and Calvin Klein, are the worst paid in the world, earning only $26 a month, a report said Tuesday. That is less than half the salary of tailors in Bangladesh who earn $95, said the report by New York University's Stern Center for Business and Human Rights. The report, entitled "Made in Ethiopia: Challenges in the Garment Industry's New Frontier," said that their Kenyan counterparts earn $207 a month, and those in China $326. Google on Tuesday bucked the soaring smartphone price trend, unveiling a high-performance Pixel handset aimed at the middle of the market as part of a wide-ranging pitch to developers of its new hardware, software and privacy efforts. The Pixel 3a phone, which includes many of the artificial intelligence features of its flagship devices, will be priced from $399, executives said at Google’s annual I/O developers conference Mountain View, Silicon Valley. Apple and Samsung have boosted prices of their newest handsets to over $1,000 with Google's flagship Pixel 3 selling from around $800. South Africans began voting on Wednesday in national elections which the ruling ANC, in power since 1994, is favourite to win despite corruption scandals, sluggish economic growth and record unemployment. The ANC has won all the past five elections, but Wednesday's vote is set to be an electoral test on whether the party has withstood a decline in popularity. The party is tipped to win the vote, but with a reduced majority and the result will reveal whether its new leader, President Cyril Ramaphosa, can reverse growing resentment among South African voters. Lawyers for the Herero and Nama tribes on Tuesday appealed a New York court ruling dismissing their compensation claim against Germany for the genocide of their ancestors in present-day Namibia. In a filing before New York's federal appeals court, lawyers for the two ethnicities claim a lower court erred in its March 6 decision, which said Germany was protected from their suit by the principle of sovereign immunity of a state. Germany is vulnerable to the claim because it owns real estate in New York, and the remains of some genocide victims are interred at the city's American Museum of Natural History, the filing says, repeating arguments rejected in the March ruling. The two tribes are seeking compensation for the persecution their members suffered in what was known as German South West Africa during colonial rule from 1884-1915. An Egyptian court Tuesday upheld the death sentences of 13 Islamic militants for attacks against security forces, a judicial official said. The defendants were charged with forming a militant group, Ajnad Misr (Soldiers of Egypt), which has claimed responsibility for lethal attacks on security forces in and around the capital Cairo. Egypt's Cassation Court rejected an appeal against initial rulings passed by a Giza criminal tribunal in December 2017. They were also convicted of "terrorist acts against police forces and public facilities from late 2013 to May 2015". Senegalese Muslim leader Sheikh Bethio Thioune died in France on Tuesday, a day after he was sentenced in absentia to 10 years of hard labour for abetting the murder of two followers, one of his lawyers said. The high criminal court in Mbour, south of Dakar, found the influential head of a branch of the Mouride Brotherhood guilty of failing to denounce a crime and of being an accomplice to murder seven years ago. There was no official confirmation of Thioune's death in Senegal or France. Niger will from Wednesday observe three days of mourning for 60 people who were killed in a tanker truck explosion near the international airport in the capital Niamey, the government said. Security official Hamani Adamou Abdoul-Aziz told state television the toll from the explosion would likely rise because several people sustained severe, life-threatening burns. Interior Minister Mohamed Bazoum said people on foot and motorcycle had rushed to the truck to take fuel when the blast occurred. According to witnesses, one biker failed to switch off his engine, causing a spark that ignited the 50,000 litres of fuel. Sudan's army rulers Tuesday said Islamic law should remain the guiding principle in a new civilian structure, after protest leaders handed in proposed changes they want enforced but kept silent on Sharia. The military council told reporters that the generals overall agreed to the proposals but had "many reservations". These included the silence on Islamic Sharia law remaining the bedrock of all laws. Sudan, under the deposed Omar al-Bashir, applied Islamic law inconsistently despite it being the guiding principle in the constitution. This led to thousands of women being flogged for "indecent behaviour," according to women's rights activists. A brother of Equatorial Guinea's long-serving ruler Teodoro Obiang Nguema and the minister in charge of his security is died. Antonio Nguema died of an unspecified illness at a hospital in South Africa. He was among the top brass who helped strengthen his family’s grip on power, crushing two attempts at overthrowing the government. After 40 years in power, President Obiang Nguema is the world’s longest-serving non-royal head of state. A Chinese woman has been arrested in Ghana for allegedly attempting to smuggle four containers of rosewood out of the country. In March, Ghana’s Lands and Natural Resources Ministry directed the Forestry Commission to ban the harvesting, transportation and export of rosewood in the country. Civil society groups have intensified their campaign for the government to prosecute Chinese nationals operating illegally in the country after Chinese-led illegal mining left most of Ghana’s water bodies polluted. The Chinese government said last month it was ready to collaborate with the government Ghana to fight illegal operations by Chinese nationals. However, it also blamed local partners for the crimes. Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president Amaju Pinnick and four other top-ranking officials have been charged with corruption, including embezzlement of millions of dollars from world body FIFA, court sources said on Wednesday. The Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) brought the charges against Pinnick, NFF vice presidents Seyi Akinwunmi and Shehu Dikko, general secretary Sanusi Mohammed and committee member Ahmed Yusuf. The charges range from failure to declare their assets to conflict of interest and alleged embezzlement of $8.4 million paid by world football governing body FIFA to Nigeria for participation in the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. Another set of NFF officials are facing trial for the alleged misappropriation of a $9.5 million FIFA grant to Nigeria. The case has been adjourned to May 30.   Questions mount over Salva Kiir's political will to implement the peace deal. They say they have united to unseat President Museveni.