UN calls for more funds to fight Ebola in DR Congo The United Nations is stepping up its response to the deadly Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo, now in its 10th month, and needs additional resources, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Wednesday. More than 1,000 people have died from the virus - the second deadliest outbreak on record after the epidemic that killed 11,300 people in West Africa in 2014-2016. Guterres said he was "concerned by the number of new Ebola cases" and praised health workers who have vaccinated over 100,000 people and saved hundreds of lives. Uber drivers strike to press demands on rideshare firms Thousands of Uber and Lyft drivers turned off their apps Wednesday in a series of job actions across US cities protesting pay and working conditions at the big ride-hailing services. An estimated 10,000 New York drivers heeded a strike call, according to the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, an organizer of the action. The drivers are protesting arbitrary "deactivations" or firing and a shifting revenue-sharing model that critics say leaves drivers behind. The ride-hailing service industry has come under sharp focus in Africa and across the world for its apparent contravention of labour regulations. Illegal haul of Gabonese sacred wood disappears More than 350 seized containers of kevazingo, a precious wood considered sacred and whose exploitation is banned in Gabon, have gone missing, it emerged Wednesday. The cargo confiscated by the authorities were found to have "curiously disappeared" on April 30.  Customs officers had discovered the collection of rare hardwood - worth millions of dollars - in February and March at two Chinese-owned depots at the Owendo timber port on the Libreville peninsula. The wood had been loaded into containers bearing ministry of water and forests labels, falsely describing it as Okoume - a kind of timber cleared for export. Kevazingo (bubinga) species take many years to mature, is highly valued in Asia where its top grade fetches up to $2,000 per cubic metre. Nigerian court sets date for petition of President Buhari’s win The court of appeal in Nigeria will hear challenger Atiku Abubakar’s case against the election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 23 election. In pre-trial hearings on Wednesday, the five judge bench said four petitions had been lodged and wood be heard for two days on May 15 and 16. A decision would then be made after six months, long after May 29 when President Buhari will be sworn in for a second term in office. It can be challenged in the Supreme Court. Mr Buhari won the seat with 56 per cent of the vote against Mr Abubakar’s 41 per cent. Opponents of third term for Guinea's president jailed: sources Seven Guinean opposition supporters have received three-month jail terms for demonstrating against a mooted third term for President Alpha Conde, judicial sources said Wednesday. Conde, 81, became the first freely-elected president in Guinea's history in 2010 and was re-elected five years later. He has repeatedly questioned Guinea’s constitutional a two-term ceiling and deploys deadly force to crush protests. His term ends in 2020. Last month, supporters and opponents of a third term clashed in two Guinean towns, with several hurt and others arrested. Sudan protesters threaten civil disobedience in row with army Sudanese protest leaders promised to escalate pressure on the military rulers to hand over power to a civilian government after the two sides failed to agree on the composition of a new governance structure. The two sides are grappling over whether an overall ruling council that would replace the existing army council - made up solely of generals - should have a civilian or military majority. There has also been a proposal for dual structure with a military council in charge of sovereignty and security and a civilian one in charge of government. Ethiopia says 1,400 nationals freed from Saudi prisons Ethiopia's foreign ministry said Wednesday that 1,400 of the country's citizens had been freed from prison in Saudi Arabia. In recent years Saudi Arabia has rounded up and jailed thousands of Ethiopians for illegally entering the kingdom. The ministry said that it planned to bring the prisoners back home. An estimated 334,000 Ethiopians migrated to the Middle East between 2006 and 2014, according to the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat, a group of international organisations that monitor migration in East Africa and Yemen where other Ethiopians are held in a football stadium awaiting repatriation Nigeria's splits Sanusi’s Kano emirate The government in northern Nigeria’s Kano state has approved a law to split the 200-year-old Kano emirate into five. The controversial move is seen by many as a strategy to weaken the current emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, who has been critical of the government. But the authorities say his emirate - the largest in the country - has been broken up with the aim of moving the traditional institution closer to the people. Emir Muhammadu Sanusi - a former governor of Nigeria’s central bank - has not yet commented on the decision. Ghana arrests 81 in separatist crackdown: police Police in Ghana said on Wednesday they had arrested 81 people accused of supporting the declaration of an eastern region as an independent country. The sweeping arrests follow the detention of eight of the group's leaders on Sunday as they prepared to declare the region as their own nation, according to officers, meaning a total of 89 have been detained. Police said the group were members of the "Homeland Study Group Foundation", or HGSF, which campaigns for a separate nation in Ghana's eastern Volta region, which they call "Western Togoland." US honours Zimbabwe scholar Zimbabwean-born scholar Tererai Trent has been named one of the ten most inspiring women in the world as part of an initiative called "Sculpted for Equal Rights", according to the Herald Newspaper. A life-size bronze statue of the US-based academic will be unveiled alongside those of other honorees at Rockefeller Centre in New York City on August 26. The monument is intended to recognise Ms Trent for her role in promoting equality and empowerment for girls and women. It will stand alongside new statues of other prominent women such as media mogul Oprah Winfrey, actress Nicole Kidman, conservationist Jane Goodall, actress Cate Blanchett, activist Janet Mock, chemist Tracy Dyson, author Cheryl Strayed and Olympic gymnast Gabby Douglas.   Preliminary results are expected late Thursday. Move comes amid austerity push to free up cash for development.