DR Congo opposition leader Moise Katumbi will return to his country on May 20 from three years of self-imposed exile to fight a bid to change the nation's constitution. "I am returning on May 20 to Lubumbashi to be with my people. I am going back to wake up the population and keep the constitution from being changed by lawmakers loyal to former president Joseph Kabila," the former governor of the southeastern Katanga province told RFI and France 24 media in an interview. He pledged to remain in opposition and not join the new government of President Felix Tshisekedi, who succeeded Kabila in January in the country's first peaceful political transition since independence from Belgium in 1960. In April, a court in the Democratic Republic of Congo scrapped a three-year jail term against Katumbi for alleged property fraud, opening the way for him to return from Belgium. The International Criminal Court has upheld a reprimand against Jordan for not arresting Mr Bashir in 2017 when he attended an Arab League Summit in Amman, despite there being two international warrants for his arrest. However, it said that Jordan will not be referred to the UN Security Council for failing to arrest the former Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir on war crimes charges. The split decision by the five judge panel reverses a previous decision by the ICC. Omar al-Bashir, who was toppled last month by mass protests after 30 years in power, has travelled to a number of countries over the past decade without being arrested including Kenya, Uganda and South Africa. A fuel tanker lorry has overturned and exploded near the airport in Niger's capital, Niamey, killing at least 58 people, authorities say. Many of the victims had gathered to collect fuel after the vehicle overturned close to railway tracks as it tried to park. Another 37 people were injured in the explosion late on Sunday evening. Fuel tanker explosions are fairly common in Niger's leading oil-producing neighbour, Nigeria. Niamey has been trying to contain fuel smuggling from Nigeria. Liberia's Weah suspends minister for fuelling ethnic tensions Liberian President George Weah on Monday suspended his junior press minister for stoking ethnic tensions in a country ravaged by tribalism and two civil wars which killed some 250,000 people. Weah suspended Eugene Fahngon over comments that a call for a big anti-government demonstration on June 7 was engineered by the so-called "Congo Liberians," or descendants of freed slaves who returned from the United States to found Africa's first independent republic. Weah, who overcame childhood poverty to become an international football legend, is not from this class, which has dominated politics in Liberia for 170 years. Weah and his government were "committed to a 'one country, one people' policy with zero tolerance on divisive politicking or tribalism," a statement said. Namibia declares drought a national emergency Namibia's President Hage Geingob has declared a state of emergency to tackle the effects of a drought which has hit the southern African state. All governments department have been mobilised to "protect" Namibians and their livestock, he said. "The rain season is almost over and we did not receive good rainfall. This means that we are facing the natural disaster of drought and many will be affected by the situation," Geingob added. Police in Mozambique say they have arrested two people over the abduction and murder of a 12-year old boy with albinism. The suspects confessed to the murder, with one of them saying that they had killed the boy "to extract his bones". A third suspect is being sought, police said. In Mozambique, people convicted of kidnapping and killing albinos have been sentenced to up to 40 years in prison. There has been a spate of killings of people with albinism in parts of southern and East Africa, with their body parts used to make charms and potions by witchdoctors. Eight men have been arrested in Ghana for preparing to declare an eastern region as an independent country, police said Monday. The men, who were reportedly leading a campaign for a separate nation called "Western Togoland", were arrested on Sunday in the town of Ho, some 150 kilometres (95 miles) northeast of the capital Accra. "We found in their possession their prepared constitution and anthem," police spokesman David Eklu said.Police said the men, part of group formed in 1994 and called the "Homeland Study Group Foundation", or HGSF, had also been training a militia force. Rights groups condemns abuses in Cameroon crackdown Cameroon authorities have regularly tortured and held incommunicado detainees arrested in the government's crackdown on an English-speaking armed separatist movement, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said in a report on Monday. It urged the United Nations to put Cameroon's situation on its agenda and to condemn abuses against people arrested on suspicion of having ties to separatists. Since 2017, fighting between government troops and anglophone separatists demanding independence in the southwest and northwest regions have killed hundreds and forced nearly 500,000 people from their homes. Human Rights Watch said it had documented 26 cases of incommunicado detention and enforced disappearance between January 2018 and January 2019 at the State Defence Secretariat (SED) detention centre in the capital Yaounde. Sudan protest death toll hits 90: doctors committee Ninety protesters have been killed in protest-related violence across Sudan since demonstrations against ousted president Omar al-Bashir erupted in December, a doctors' committee said Monday. The death toll given by the committee is higher than the official figure of 65 killed in such violence since December. The committee linked to the Alliance of Freedom and Change - the group leading the protests - has compiled a list of 90 "martyrs" killed by security forces of Bashir's regime, the committee said. Libya air strikes point to possible UAE involvement: UN report United Nations experts are investigating missile strikes near Libya's capital that were fired likely using Chinese-made drones and point to possible involvement by the United Arab Emirates, a confidential report shows. The April 19-20 missile attack on the southern suburbs of Tripoli was carried out as forces loyal to commander Khalifa Haftar battled to seize the capital from the UN-recognized government. A UN panel of experts said it had identified the weapon as a Blue Arrow air-to-surface missile, which has not been used in Libya before.The Chinese-made missile is only in use in three countries - China, Kazakhstan and the United Arab Emirates -- and is paired with the Chinese-made Wing Loong drone.Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are seen as key supporters of Haftar although the government in Tripoli has also accused France of backing him.   South Sudan information minister says government will resist protests called by South Sudanese Bobi Wine says he is in talks to form his cabinet.