A Gabonese court has thrown out a bid by opposition activists to force President Ali Bongo Ondimba to have medical checks to see if he is still fit to rule. The court in Libreville rejected the request as "inadmissible", according to the ruling seen by AFP Saturday. Only the government or the two chambers of parliament had the power to go to the Constitutional Court to get a ruling removing the president from power, it said. Bongo spent five months abroad in Morocco, recovering from a stroke he suffered on October 24 while visiting Saudi Arabia. Ali Bongo has ruled the oil-rich central African country since 2009, following the death of his father Omar Bongo, who ruled from 1967. Senegalese lawmakers on Saturday approved a constitutional reform to scrap the post of prime minister, the first initiative of President Macky Sall's second term in office. The motion passed with 124 MPs voting in favour and only seven against, National Assembly president Moustapha Niasse said Saturday evening after a nine-hour debate. The government approved the measure last month before sending it to the parliament where the presidential party enjoys a majority. On Saturday, lawmakers also backed legislative changes aimed at preventing the president from dissolving the National Assembly, which in turn can no longer table a motion of no confidence against the government. Justice Minister Malick Sall said the changes were "purely technical and administrative" but the opposition sees them as concentrating power in the presidency. Malawi's high court has sentenced to death a man who murdered a young albino, an unprecedented penalty in a country which has seen a surge in attacks and killings of people with albinism. Willard Mikaele, then 28, was convicted of killing 19-year-old Mphatso Pensulo in the southern district of Thyolo in 2017. "He planned to kill an albino so as to get rich fast as advised by the herbalist," judge Maclean Kamwambe said in handing down the sentence on Friday in Thyolo. Malawi has not carried out any executions since 1994, with death sentences commuted to life imprisonment.The verdict suggests a growing awareness by the Malawian authorities of the attacks on albinos, said Ikponwosa Ero, the UN independent expert on albinism. In a June 2018 report, rights group Amnesty International said that since November 2014 there had been 148 crimes reported against people with albinism, with at least 21 deaths. Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa on Saturday demanded exclusive dialogue with President Emmerson Mnangagwa's ruling ZANU-PF party on how to get the country back on its feet. Chamisa, president of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), told thousands of people at a memorial service for his predecessor Morgan Tsvangirai in Buhera, Manicaland Province, that talks between the country's two biggest political parties were the only way towards solutions to challenges bedevilling the country. Mnangagwa this year invited losing presidential candidates ato dialogue but Chamisa and his party snubbed the initiative. So far, a number of meetings have been held between ZANU-PF and 18 other political parties. Zimbabwe is in the midst of an economic crisis which many analysts believe can largely be solved politically. Egypt's antiquities ministry on Saturday unveiled a 4,500-year-old burial ground near the Giza pyramids containing wooden coffins and limestone statues dating back to the Old Kingdom. The site on the southeastern side of Giza plateau contains tombs and burial shafts from various periods, but the oldest is a limestone family tomb from the fifth dynasty (around 2500 BC), the ministry said. An AFP photographer who was allowed to access the burial shaft saw inscriptions on the walls, intricately painted wooden sarcophagi and sculptures of animals and humans. The ministry said the tomb was that of two people: Behnui-Ka, also known as Chief of the Great State and "purifier" of the pharoah Khafre. Khafre, known to the Ancient Greeks as Chephren, built the second of the three famous Pyramids of Giza. A Sudanese protester has died from injuries suffered in clashes between security forces and demonstrators from a camp for displaced people in conflict-wracked Darfur, medics said on Sunday. Violence erupted Saturday when crowds of protesters from camp Attash clashed with soldiers and paramilitary forces in Nyala, the provincial capital of South Darfur state, the official SUNA news agency reported. Deadly clashes have rocked Sudan since December when protests broke out against the iron-fisted rule of veteran leader Omar al-Bashir, who was ousted by the army on April 11. Officials say at least 65 people have died in protest-related violence. On Saturday, SUNA reported that four members of the army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Force had been "critically wounded" in clashes with protesters from camp Attash, and that there were no casualties among the demonstrators. Said Bouteflika, the powerful brother of deposed Algerian president Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was arrested Saturday along with two former intelligence chiefs, a security source told AFP. General Mohamed Mediene, known as Toufik, who headed the secret service for 25 years and former intelligence coordinator Athmane Tartag were the two spy chiefs arrested, the source said, asking not to be named. Said Bouteflika was seen as the guiding hand behind the rule of his ailing brother Abdelaziz, who resigned on April 2 following pressure from the military in the face of huge street protests. The president's brother was frequently cited in the past as a likely successor as head of state. Boko Haram jihadists have seized a military base in northeast Nigeria, days after an attack left five troops dead and 30 missing, security sources and residents said Saturday. A column of fighters from the IS-affiliated Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) in trucks and on motorcycles stormed into the base in the town of Magumeri, 50 kilometres (30 miles) from the Borno state capital Maiduguri late Friday. The militants overran the base, hauling away weapons before they were forced out. Militia leader Gremah Kaka told AFP the jihadists stayed in the base for "more than four hours" before they were dislodged by reinforcements from another base in Gubio, 46 kilometres away. Boko Haram's decade-long campaign of violence has killed 27,000 people and displaced around two million in Nigeria.   Kenyan, Ugandan armies have been upgrading their hardware as they lead war in Somalia. Bobi Wine’s jailing and court case similar to what Besigye went through.