Bio Education: Rugemeleza Nshala went to University of Dar es Salaam where he acquired a Bachelor of Laws degree (LLB) in 1993 and before going to Harvard Law School where he graduated with a Masters of Laws (LLM) in 1997 and later to the Yale School of Forestry and Environment where he obtained a Masters of Environmental Management (MEM) in 2007. He also obtained a Doctorate of Juridical Sciences (SJD) from Yale University. Work: In 1994, he co-founded Lawyers' Environmental Action Team (LEAT), one of the first public interest environmental law organisations in eastern and central Africa. Its formation spurred the formation of similar organisations in other African countries. Dr Nshala has carried out field research in Ghana, Tanzania, Zambia and Botswana. He has also undertaken extensive research of FDI and negative repercussions of investment incentives on mineral-rich countries. In 2019 he was elected president of Tanzania mainland bar association, Tanganyika Law Society (TLS). Tanganyika Law Society’s new president spoke with Christopher Kidanka on governance in Tanzania. ----------------------------- TLS was recently warned against engaging in political activism otherwise it risks deregistration... TLS is apolitical. We are a professional body working to defend the rule of law and ensure that the judiciary functions independently and that the separation of powers between the pillars of government is clear-cut. Where do we draw the line between defending the rule of law and politics? One is considered to be engaging in politics if he or she seeks to take the reins of power. It is our duty as the legal profession to defend the rule of law just like every citizen, without being considered political. We want to see parliament work independently, be respected and pass laws without pressure while exercising its oversight role. According to Article 63 of the Constitution parliament must not seem to be dictated to. How would you describe the state of governance in Tanzania? It is challenging. We see a country being ruled through proclamations; arrests without evidence with some suspects languishing in remand for years; others are charged with say money laundering which is non-bailable, and investigations continue for years.... There is a need for criminal justice reforms. But it is also encouraging that the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs has begun to crack the whip on district commissioners who detain people arbitrarily. Tanzania appears cautious about signing regional treaties such as the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance and the African Continental Free Trade Area. What is your take on this? Arusha hosts the African Union Court of Justice, and it is unfortunate that our country has not made relevant local legislations to domesticate the treaty. One can even raise questions on why Tanzania should then continue hosting that court? We also need to operationalise the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. In your one-year tenure as president of TLS, what should Tanzanians expect? I will advise the government on law and good governance. I will also ensure lawyers work free from intimidation and harassment.   UAE states support a transition in Sudan that balances the ambitions of the people. Move opens the door for him to return home from three years in exile