Sudanese mediators have proposed two transitional bodies in a bid to break a deadlock in talks on a power handover from the military rulers to civilians, a protest leader said Sunday. The army and protesters are wrangling over how to replace the existing 10-member military council that took over after the generals ousted president Omar al-Bashir on April 11. The two sides agreed on forming a joint military-civilian last week, but have failed to hammer out the details on the makeup of the body. "There is a proposal to have two councils, one led by civilians and the other by the military," said Omar al-Digeir, a senior opposition leader and member of the umbrella protest group the Alliance for Freedom and Change. The "exact job description" of both the councils has yet to be decided, he said. "No final decision has been taken yet." Mozambique's ruling party on Sunday endorsed President Filipe Nyusi as its candidate for presidential elections in October, after a three-day meeting of its top officials in Maputo.Frelimo party spokesman Edson Macuacua said the party's Central Committee considered President Nyusi's achievements such as expanding the drinking water network, education and transportation. Nyusi, after being chosen party candidate, said: "the victory of Frelimo is an imperative of the victory of the people".General elections are scheduled for October 15. Nyusi's main challenger is Ossufo Momade from the main opposition Renamo party. President Muhammadu Buhari returned to Nigeria on Sunday after a 10-day private visit to Britain, his office said, with the trip sparking fresh debate about his state of health. The 76-year-old leader, who has previously been in London for long spells of medical care, did not say whether his latest visit was linked to health problems. The trip that started on April 25 was from the start labelled as private. Dozens of Libyan lawmakers supporting the internationally recognised government in Tripoli on Sunday elected a "provisional speaker" as they vied with loyalists of commander Khalifa Haftar for control. Libya has been mired in chaos since the 2011 ouster of Moamer Kadhafi, with Haftar backing a rival administration in the east that includes the country's parliament. The military strongman's forces last month launched an offensive to capture the seat of the Government of National Accord in the capital.Forty-two deputies have convened in Tripoli as part of a boycott of the parliament in the east to protest Haftar's assault on Tripoli. Lawmaker Soleiman al-Faqih said the group had elected senior member Sadeq al-Keheli as speaker for a period of 45 days in the hope that other legislators would join their side. Egyptian police arrested and beat an Italian student who was later found murdered because they thought he was a British spy, according to fresh testimony reported by Italian newspapers on Sunday. The account of how Giulio Regeni, a 28-year-old doctoral researcher at Britain's Cambridge University, disappeared in Cairo in January 2016 came from a witness who overheard an Egyptian intelligence agent speaking about "the Italian guy", La Repubblica newspaper said. The conversation about the tumultuous situation in Egypt in Arabic took place at a police convention in an unnamed African country in 2017 and was related to Italian prosecutors who have now asked Egyptian authorities for more information. The Italian foreign ministry tweeted Sunday that it "supports the Rome prosecutor's request for information, in the strong hope that it contributes to the path of justice for Giulio Regeni." Ten people were killed in fighting between two communities seeking power in an western village of the Democratic Republic of Congo, local officials said Sunday. During a night of fighting with machetes by rival clan members in Kahungu village last week "ten people were killed and six inured, including two police officers," said local official Tresor Kitambala, who added that two houses were torched. The last outbreak of fighting between the Bakwamanda and the Ngundu communities happened last July and left one person dead, said Blaise Nzuana, head of a regional farmworkers group. The body of a Benin tour guide has been found in a national park, the government said Sunday, heightening fears that two French tourists who disappeared with him have been kidnapped. Autopsy results confirmed that the body found on May 4 "was that of the Benin guide of the two French tourists who are still missing," the interior ministry said in a statement. France said efforts were underway to find the pair who disappeared in the remote Pendjari National Park. The unnamed tourists and their local guide went missing on Wednesday in the wildlife reserve some 550 kilometres (340 miles) north of Benin's economic capital Cotonou. An Egyptian court on Sunday jailed 56 people for taking part in a 2013 protest by Muslim Brotherhood supporters that was brutally dispersed by the authorities, a judicial source said. Security forces violently broke up two protest sites in Cairo and neighbouring Giza on 14 August 2013 in a bloody operation that Human Rights Watch says killed more than 800 demonstrators. Supporters of Islamist president Mohammed Morsi had camped out for weeks after the army ousted him from power in the face of huge demonstrations. Rights groups have decried the "impunity" for security forces over the bloodshed as protesters have faced punishment over the clashes. Tunisian security forces have killed three suspected jihadists from an Islamic State group affiliate in the centre of the country, the interior ministry said Sunday. A statement said "three of the most dangerous terrorists" from the Jund al-Khilafa (Soldiers of the Caliphate) group were "eliminated" Saturday evening near the town of Sidi Ali Ben Oun, 230 kilometres (140 miles) southwest of Tunis. It identified the men as Hatem ben Aid Basdouri, 40, Mohamed ben Ibrahim Basdouri, 35, and Montassar ben Khraief Ghozlani, 31. Security forces seized weapons, ammunition, explosives and suicide vests, the authorities said.   The military has two months to hand power to a civilian authority. Intelligence sources says Achwa River is a common dumping site for victims of extra-judicial