South Africa’s Deputy President David Mabuza will not be sworn in with the rest of the members of Parliament on Wednesday pending the outcome of the African National Congress (ANC) integrity committee inquiry. South Africa’s sixth democratic Parliament will convene on Wednesday when 400 members, many of them newly elected, will be officially sworn in by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. The decision to postpone Mr Mabuza’s swearing in follows an ANC integrity commission report, tabled at the party’s special national executive committee (NEC) meeting on Monday. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office on Wednesday said Mr Mabuza had requested that his swearing in be deferred pending outcomes of the integrity committee. “The deputy president made the request in light of a report by the ANC Integrity Commission in which he is alleged to have prejudiced the integrity of the ANC and brought the organisation into disrepute,” said President Ramaphosa on Wednesday. INTEGRITY The ANC’s integrity commission, which was mandated by the governing party’s highest decision-making body to review its lists of candidates for the national assembly and provincial legislatures before the May 8 elections, recommended that Mr Mabuza step aside. Following the May 8 elections that the ANC won, there has been speculation that President Ramaphosa will get rid of tainted party officials. Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has been tipped to take over as deputy president. However, Mr Mabuza this week dismissed the rumours, calling them “speculation”. President Ramaphosa said his second-in-command “has decided to follow the dictates of his conscience and postpone his swearing in as a member of the National Assembly out of respect for the ANC's institutions and processes”. He commended Mr Mabuza for taking this decision and putting the interests of the party first. The Sowetan, a local daily, on Wednesday reported that Mr Mabuza may not be forming part of the 6th Parliament and the ANC would replace him with Judy Hermans on its list of MPs. A letter sent to the new ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina read: “Just been advised by Cde DSG (Jessie Duarte) that Cde DP Mabuza has declined his nomination and will not be sworn in tomorrow (Wednesday). We will have the letter tomorrow (Wednesday) morning. I am preparing the necessary nomination letter for Cde Judy Hermans for Cde SG’s signature tomorrow (Wednesday). Cde Hermans will be sworn-in in the next round.” Mr Mabuza is out of favour with both the Ramaphosa and former president Jacob Zuma camps.   President Uhuru Kenyatta launches company that is key to expanding home ownership in Kenya Officials say 11 people were wounded in the attack.