• Kenya’s ex-president Daniel Moi to pay $10m over land grab The High Court has ordered former Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi to pay a family $10 million for illegally taking possession of their land. On September 21, 1983, Mr Moi forcibly took over a 53-acre piece of land owned by ex-chief Noah Kipngeny Chelugui, and, 24 years later, he sold it to a firm owned by the Jaswant Rai family.  • Tanzania floods kill five, leave 2,500 homeless At least five people have been killed and 2,500 forced to flee their homes after heavy rains caused flooding in southern Tanzania.  • Nigerian military and police blame politicians for increased crime The Nigerian army and police have warned politicians against instigating attacks in the Niger-Delta region. They say some of those who lost in the 2019 election losers have been sponsoring crime, causing insecurity in the region.  • Facebook bans Israeli firm over 'fake Africa accounts' Facebook has banned an Israeli company it believes was behind hundreds of fake accounts, pages and groups mostly targeting elections in six African countries. They posted frequently about political news, pretending to be locals of Angola, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Togo and Tunisia.  • South Africa slashes cost of inauguration South Africa will be spending $7 million less on President Cyril Ramaphosa's inauguration compared to the cost of swearing in Jacob Zuma for his second term five years ago.  • MTN lists on Nigeria stock exchange, offers citizens 20 pc stake Telecommunication giant MTN lists on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), reserving 20 per cent of the shares on offer to Nigerians. The company listed 20.35 billion shares at $0.27 per share valuing it at $18.09 billion.  • Police 'enforce' ban on Juba nightclubs Police in South Sudan's capital, Juba, are enforcing a ban on nightclubs and restrictions on the opening hours of bars. The city council said the restrictions arose from complaints by residents that the nightclubs were a nuisance all night.   Military council suspended crucial talks, demanding protesters take down roadblocks. At least 2,500 are homeless following a week of torrential rain.