Global soft drinks manufacturer Coca-Cola has appointed Phillipine Mtikitiki as General manager in-charge of the company’s franchise in the East and Central African region. Her appointment takes effect on June 1. Ms Mtikitiki takes over from Ahmed Rady who has been appointed General Manager of the firm in Egypt. Mtikitiki will be based in Nairobi, Kenya and will be responsible for developing and managing the business plan of the US-based multinational across the East and Central Africa region. “With Phillipine’s expertise and track record, I am confident that her leadership will take the business to new heights in this region, which is full of opportunity and growth,” Bruno Pietracci, the company’s President in-charge of the Southern & East Africa Business Unit (Seabu) said in a statement. Pietracci said the management changes aimed at strengthening Coca-Cola’s operations in the region. Ms Mtikitiki has experience in a fast-moving consumer goods, marketing, planning and commercial strategy. “I am thrilled to have been appointed as the first female General Manager for the East and Central Africa Franchise,” said Mtikitiki. The regional franchise has been growing steadily over the last few years, supported by the region’s rapid urbanisation and growing population. “These trends also form the backdrop for our drive towards innovation and creating consumer-centric brands, which I’m very excited to lead,” added Mtikitiki. Prior to her appointment, Mtikitiki served as the regional franchise manager for Seabu, leading and executing the business strategy across Mozambique, Namibia, Botswana and Zambia. She joined Coca-Cola Company in 1998 as a graduate associate and over 13 years, she took up various roles in the company across the business unit and it’s bottling entities in South Africa. Mtikitiki holds a master’s degree in Business Administration (MBA) from Henley Business School, a bachelor’s degree in business administration and Honours in Economics from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Coca-Cola is the world’s largest beverage company, offering over 500 brands to people in more than 200 countries.   Questions mount over Salva Kiir's political will to implement the peace deal. They say they have united to unseat President Museveni.