Organisers of a protest in South Sudan to demand the removal of President Salva Kiir from office say the mass action will kick off on Thursday, instead of Wednesday as earlier planned. They said the delay arose from the hacking of social media accounts of the Red Card Movement, the group mobilising for the protests. When the activists started calling the youth to action last week, the military deployed at the Freedom Square in Juba where the protests were to start. Protests are planned across the country as well as in the Diaspora The military council that rode on mass protests to oust President Omar al-Bashir last month and the Alliance for Freedom and Change are expected to sign agreements on Wednesday after they agreed on a three-year transition to civilian rule. With three organs - sovereign, administrative and legislative - having been agreed on on Monday, the main sticking point is who will control the majority in the sovereign council that is now dominated by generals and which both the military and the protest leaders covet. Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa has sacked the Minister of Energy and Power Development, Joram Gumbo, amidst the worst electricity blackouts since 2016. He has been replaced by Fortune Chasi, the Transport and Infrastructural Development Deputy Minister. The state-owned power firm said on Monday there would be blackouts of between five and eight hours a day because of a drop in output at its largest hydro plant and ageing coal-fired generators. The government of eSwatini, formerly Swaziland, on Tuesday angrily denied viral online reports that King Mswati III, Africa's last absolute monarch who has 14 wives, had ordered men to have at least two marriages or face jail. The story, carried by the Zambian Observer and picked up by several other online publications, said that Swazi men would have to marry several wives starting from June. Government spokesman Percy Simelane said "His Majesty has not made any pronouncement to that effect" and the issue had never been raised by the people. Millions of dollars' worth of the protected Kevazingo wood that went missing earlier this year after being confiscated by authorities has now been recovered. Quoting Gabonese authorities, Reuters said, 200 containers had been recovered, leaving 153 unaccounted for. The report said the containers were found in port yards of two companies Kevazingo wood is native to Gabon's Congo Basin. It takes 500 years to grow to its full height of 40 metres and is highly valued in Asia. The opposition in the West African country of Benin is refusing to accept April's parliamentary election results. Members of parliament are now calling for President Patrice Talon to resign after days of violent protests. The legislative assembly elections were held with only three parties allied to the president taking part after a new law set stringent terms for party eligibility.   The ruling ANC finds itself confronting old problems anew with jobs a ticking time-bomb The blockade is a result of the worsening animosity between Kagame and Museveni.