Opposition leader Katumbi returns to DRC Thousands of people lined up along the road leading to the main airport in the south-eastern city of Lubumbashi, in Katanga province, to welcome back exiled opposition leader Moise Katumbi. Mr Katumbi was the governor of the mineral-rich Katanga province for almost a decade before resigning in 2015 to run for the presidency. He, however, fled the country in 2016 after falling out with former President Joseph Kabila and was only allowed to return to the country by the courts. Abiy hosts 'the most expensive dinner' in Ethiopia Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed hosted 200 business people and representatives from several organisations for a Sunday dinner dubbed "the most expensive in the country". Guests had to pay $173,000. money enough to buy a house in a middle level estate in the capital Addis Ababa, to dine at the place of a former emperor of the country, Menelik. The event was held to help reach a $1.1bn fundraising target to pay for the regeneration of Sheger, an area in Addis Ababa, by cleaning rivers and building recreation parks. Nigerian set to be UNGA president Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Amb. Tijani Mohammed-Bande, is set to be the President of the 74th session of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) beginning in September. Mr Tijani will take over from Ms Maria Espinosa. Mohammed-Bande, a professor of Political Science and former Director-General of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), is the only candidate for the 74th UNGA presidency which is reserved for Africa under the rotational presidency system. MTN Nigeria takes $656 million syndicated loan MTN Nigeria has signed an agreement with seven local banks for a $656 million loan. The company's chief executive officer Ferdi Moolman said the facility would enable MTN pursue new business openings. The loan is denominated in Naira and has a moratorium of two years. The lending banks are Access Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, Zenith Bank, Fidelity Bank, First City Monument Bank, United Bank for Africa and First Bank. Angola dos Santos daughter wants president Lourenço impeached The daughter of Angola's former President José Eduardo dos Santos wants president João Lourenço to resign or be impeached for destroying institutions. Ms Welwitschia José dos Santos Tchizé, an MP of the ruling MPLA party, said she would lobby legislators for the establishment of a parliamentary enquiry into the president's performance. She would also file an impeachment request with Angola's constitutional court, she said in an interview with the Portuguese news agency Lusa on May 9. Ms dos Santos is currently out of the country attending to her sick daughter but could be stripped of her parliamentary seat. The party stipulates that its representatives can only be out of the country consecutively for three months which she has exceeded. Malawi election goes down to the wire Malawi elects a new president Tuesday with no clear frontrunner, but incumbent Peter Mutharika hopes his record of improving infrastructure will help him overcome two serious challengers. But while the largely agricultural country has seen rapid development in recent years, it is still dependent on foreign aid and Mutharika, 78, has been accused of corruption and mismanagement. The main rivals to Mutharika and the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) are opposition leader Lazarus Chakwera of the long-established Malawi Congress Party (MCP), and Saulos Chilima of the new United Transformation Movement (UTM). Saudi Arabia gives Sudan junta cash Saudi Arabia says it has deposited $250m in Sudan's central bank as part of a support package for the country which is in the midst of an economic and political crisis. The gift, plus a similar recent deposit from the United Arab Emirates, will help alleviate some of the economic pain in Sudan where bank customers are limited to a maximum of $40. People are also spending hours lining up for fuel. A huge chunk of the country's budget during deposed President Omar al-Bashir went to security, and the creation of militias to prop him up. Libya govt boasts of new weapons despite arms embargo The forces of Libya's internationally recognised Government of National Accord boastedof new weapons to fight off a rival's offensive on Tripoli, despite an arms embargo on the country. "The GNA supplies armour, ammunition and... weapons, to its forces who are defending Tripoli," read a statement published on Facebook on Saturday. Pro-government forces are currently battling fighters from commander Khalifa Haftar's self-styled Libyan National Army. The GNA said the new weaponry had been supplied "in preparation for a vast operation to annihilate the rebels of the war criminal, the rebel Haftar." Uganda boat capsize: Dozens feared dead on Lake Albert Seven people have been confirmed dead and dozens more are missing after a boat capsized in western Uganda on Sunday. The boat was carrying more than 50 football players and fans from the western Uganda district of Hoima. Witnesses say overloading and bad weather are likely to blame for the accident as rescue attempts continue. In 2016, about 30 footballers and fans drowned when their boat capsized on Lake Albert.   The varying traits of regional currencies are a setback to making them tradeable. They say the corruption case is politically motivated.