The race to be crowned the English Premier League's leading scorer this season ended in a three-way tie on Sunday as the African trio of Sadio Mane, Mohamed Salah and Pierre-Emerick Aubemeyang shared the Golden Boot. They all scored 21 goals for their clubs Liverpool (Mane and Salah) and Arsenal, respectively, but Manchester City edged Liverpool to the title by a point with 98points. Somalia has for the first time used DNA evidence to obtain a criminal conviction, sentencing three men to death Sunday for the gang-rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl, the Bureau of Forensic Science said. The country got its first-ever forensic laboratory in 2017 in the semiautonomous state of Puntland, seeking to tackle widespread sexual violence in a country where three decades of conflict and turmoil have put justice out of reach for most. The bureau said in a statement that Somalia had "joined, for the first time, the rest of the world in utilising science to solve a heinous criminal case". In Somalia, the death penalty is carried out by firing squad. South Africa on Monday said it would lodge an appeal after Olympic champion Caster Semenya lost her case challenging new rules forcing female athletes to regulate their testosterone levels."We'll file the appeal as soon as we possibly can," Vuyo Mhaga, spokesman for the sport and recreation ministry, told AFP. "We feel that the scientific information that has been brought has been completely ignored." Sudan's army rulers and protesters are to hold fresh talks over handing power to a civilian administration on Monday, spokesmen for the generals and the protest movement said. On Saturday, the Alliance for Freedom and Change -- an umbrella for the protest movement - said the generals had invited it for a new round of talks after several days of deadlock. Late on Sunday the spokesman for the ruling military council, Lieutenant General Shamseddine Kabbashi said the negotiations aimed "to reach an agreement over the arrangements of the transitional period". An Egyptian man was sentenced Sunday to death by hanging for a deadly attack on a Cairo church in 2017 claimed by the Islamic State jihadist group, a judicial source said. Ten people including a police officer were killed as the assailant targeted the Saint Mina Coptic church in Helwan, on the southern outskirts of Cairo. According to the authorities, the attacker was armed with an assault rifle, ammunition and a bomb he intended to detonate at the church. Police and soldiers repelled an attack by the Mai-Mai rebel group on an Ebola treatment centre in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo overnight, killing one assailant. Sylvain Kanyamanda, the mayor of Butembo in the North Kivu province said on Monday the attackers tried to scale a 40-metre (130-foot) perimeter fence around the centre. North Kivu province is at the centre of a new outbreak of the viral disease which has killed more than 1,100 people since last August out of about 1,600 infected, according to the authorities. Among these, 99 health workers have been infected, and 34 have died. The Ebola fightback in the region is hampered by the presence of warring armed groups, including the Mai-Mai, and by locals in denial who refuse treatment and ignore prevention advice. Gunmen killed a priest and five churchgoers during mass Sunday in an attack on a Catholic church in Dablo, northern Burkina Faso, security sources and local official said. Sources said the gunmen managed to trap some of the worshippers before setting fire to the church, several shops including a café and looting a local shopping center. Clashes between members of two Sudanese tribes in an eastern town have left seven people dead and 22 wounded over the past two days, a local official told AFP Sunday. The violence erupted on Saturday between members of the Nuba and Bani Amer tribes in the town of Gadaref after a Bani water vendor killed a Nuba woman following a quarrel over the price of water. This triggered retaliatory between the two groups. The death toll from a May 6 tanker truck explosion near the international airport in Niger's capital has risen to 76, after several victims of severe burns died while undergoing treatment. State television updated late Sunday the death toll from the 60 reported earlier, including 55 who died in the explosion a few hundred metres from the airport in Niamey. The victims were scrambling for 50,000 litres of fuel flowing from an overturned truck when a motor cycle rider tried to restart the engine sparking the blast. Another 40 people were injured.   President Buhari government details fight against insurgency and its successes The white dominated Democratic Alliance could ditch its black leader Maimane following slide in