An outlawed secessionist group's call for work boycott in southern Nigeria on Thursday was ignored by residents and businessmen who went about their businesses normally. More than two million people died in the secession war and the call on Wednesday, May 28, to residents of 11 southern states by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra was meant to honour them. Coming so soon after 140 of its members were arrested last week and amid warnings from the state, residents opted to continue with their daily activities. That was with the exception of Onitsha, the commercial centre of Anambra state, where one of the main markets was shut down. In Enugu, the traditional capital of the Igbo people of the East, Ebonyi, Abia, and Imo business went one normally. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Enugu state command, Mr Ebere Amaraizu, reported that there were some arrests in the university town of Nsukka over organising unlawful procession and display of proscribed items on the streets. Others were arrested for chanting inciting songs against the nation. The Federal High Court in Abuja on Sept. 21, 2017, backed President Muhammadu Buhari’s Executive Order outlawing IPOB and declaring its activities as acts of terrorism. IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu fled Nigeria in 2018.There were no signs of compliance as the roads were busy with vehicular traffic and people going about their activities. Markets and banks in the metropolis, including Kenyatta, Garki and Akwata, including banks were opened for customers.Residents who spoke to Africa Review said they ignored the work boycott because they were pre-occupied with earning a living. A businessman, Mr Francis Ugochukwu, said people had also been frustrated by the sit-ins failing to achieve meaningful results over time. "IPOB has deceived us a lot with its seat-at-home orders and at the end of the whole thing nothing changes,” Ugochukwu said.However, there was heavy presence of security in some states. The sit-at-home call was condemned by the Igbo Youth Assembly Worldwide, a socio-cultural group, which said it could expose the community to hatred by other ethnic groups and marginalisation by the government. “Ndi Igbo are the owners of most businesses and establishments outside Igboland. Instead of promoting and propagating national integration and peaceful co-existence among Nigerians, misguided groups and elements are trying to isolate Igbos from national engagements," the President-General of the assembly, Mazi Ifeanyi Nwudunna said in Abuja on Thursday. He accused IPOB of using “cheap blackmail’’ against the government of President Muhammadu Buhari.   Move comes days after Juba called for embargo and restrictions on top officials to be lifted President Ramaphosa achieved several political ends replacing tarnished names in the cabinet with