The United States government is set to remove Eritrea from its list of countries deemed not to be cooperating fully with US counter-terror efforts. That would leave Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela on the US list, the AP reports Asmara had largely been isolated after having been accused of supporting the Somalia-based militant al-Shabab group. Eritrea always denied this. Last November, the UN Security Council lifted the sanctions imposed on Eritrea over the allegation. An Algerian human rights campaigner and Mozabite Berber activist died Tuesday in pre-trial detention, his lawyer said. Released in July 2017 after serving two years in prison for public order offences, Kamel Eddine Fekhar was re-arrested in late March for "attacks on institutions". His lawyer Salah Dabouz said the activist had been on hunger strike since he was detained, Dabouz said. Islamist insurgents have resumed attacks in northern Mozambique after a cyclone last month, making it difficult for relief teams searching for survivors and distributing aid. The shadowy jihadist group that has targeted Cabo Delgado province since October 2017 has recently killed nearly two dozen villagers and torched homes in a mounting political threat in the run-up to a general election. Cyclone Kenneth made landfall on April 25, leaving 45 dead and 250,000 affected soon after Cyclone Idai which had hit the country in March. The illegal slaughter of African elephants to feed Asia's demand for ivory has decreased by more than half in eight years, but the majestic mammals are still threatened with extinction, researchers warned Tuesday. In 2011, poachers killed some 40,000 tuskers -- about ten percent of the continent's population, according to figures from the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), based in Geneva. Last year the kill rate was about four percent, or 15,000 animals, according to new research published in Nature Communications.On current trends, co-author Colin Beale, a conservation biologist at the University of York, said the African elephant was in danger of being "virtually wiped out", surviving only in small, heavily protected pockets. Nigeria's army has moved nearly 10,000 people from areas attacked by Boko Haram jihadi fighters in northeastern Borno state, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said Tuesday. The area around has seen heavy fighting and ambush attacks against soldiers as they escorted civilians from villages into larger towns. The army has repeatedly moved large numbers of civilians away from areas, ahead of major military offensives. Mali's government should consider "dialogue" with jihadists waging an insurgency in the west African state, the International Crisis Group (ICG) think tank suggested on Tuesday. In a report, the ICG did not suggest halting military operations against Katiba Macina, the armed group of radical Islamist preacher Amadou Koufa behind a four-year-old insurgency. But it recommended "a shift of tack, with force used alongside efforts to bring Katiba Macina leaders to the table", adding that prospects of defeating the movement on the battlefield were "remote". Apple on Tuesday introduced its first new iPod model in four years, highlighting music and games as it continued to make a priority of serving up digital content. The new-generation iPod touch, essentially an iPhone without the phone calls, was available in more than two dozen countries at Apple's online shop starting at $199.Apple earlier this year unveiled streaming digital video plans along with news and game subscription offerings as part of an effort to break free of its reliance on iPhone sales. Former Belgian King Albert II, 81, submitted to a DNA test on Tuesday in order avoid daily fines of $5,600), his lawyers said. The test is a major moment in the long battle between Albert II and sculptor Delphine Boel, 51, who claims she is the child of a long affair between him and her mother, Sibylle de Selys Longchamps. She launched proceedings before a top Brussels court in 2013 to have Albert's paternity recognised.   The cabinet will be composed of 39 full ministers and about 12 assistant ministers. The US put Eritrea in the category in May 2017 for allegedly funding Al-Shabaab.