There is a famous quote that is often attributed to Harriet Tubman, “I freed a thousand slaves; I could have freed a thousand more if only they knew they were slaves.” Historians maintain that she did not actually say those words but so many have repeated this quote around the world that it has become our truth. Information is a powerful tool, so much so that history shows us that to control people, one has to control the information that is shared. George Orwell, who is one of my favourite authors, brings this out well in his book 1984 that, though a work of fiction, speaks so much truth to the lives that we live today. Or during colonial times, how the British used information to paint a picture of who the “bad guys” were, and anyone associating with them would be punished and considered a criminal. From the “discovery” of our continent, to its being termed as the Dark Continent, and missionaries coming here to save humanity, because we were savage and needed civilisation, words are powerful tools. On Tuesday, April 30, there was a protest in Nairobi. It was to start at Freedom Corner and proceed into the CBD. The demonstrators were all wearing red, and as soon as the march started, they were surrounded by riot police. They issued a press statement; a few minutes after, teargas was fired. The crowd scattered into Uhuru Park in all directions. They later regrouped and decided to continue with their initial mission, to take a stand against corruption. They had fulfilled all the legal requirements to hold the demonstration. Most of the protestors were young, energetic and ready to risk it all to send a message to power, that they had had enough with corruption. A young woman named Betty was arrested. A campaign was started online #FreeBetty. The prevalent goodwill and support was so evident that Betty was later released after midnight from the Central Police Station. Many messages online from people who did not support the campaign were from people who believe that activists are paid by international organisations to create chaos. Little did they know that a majority of the protestors were youth, ordinary citizens who felt that the cause was a worthy one to join. The fact that everyone complains online, but expects someone else to take care of it is an issue. Which superman are people waiting on? I thought we are all aware that he does not exist. Although most have a feeling of helplessness, that there is nothing that can be done and we are stuck in a terrible situation of powerlessness. Betty knew why she was on the streets, standing up for something that she believed was right. The pain was so much she could no longer live silent in a bubble, hoping that things would magically get better. She did something about it. At least Betty knows that things are not right, she is aware and she chooses not to live her life as a trapped slave. In a time like this, it is difficult to mobilise. Those who take pride in doing it in the 1990s are now old and battered. They can only reminisce in cosy boardrooms, and never speak about how they have mentored youth to pick up the fight. In fact, they say no one mentored them, so the youth too need to figure it out on their own. In a time where mobilising is evolving and is increasingly going online, many of our civil society heroes do not know how to manoeuvre today. The same people who were fighting in the ‘90s, both politicians and civil society, have now become obstacles in an age of misinformation. People like Betty are rare. It only takes a handful of them to change a country, though... Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is executive director of Siasa Place. Twitter: @NerimaW   South Sudan information minister says government will resist protests called by South Sudanese Bobi Wine says he is in talks to form his cabinet.