The ongoing two-day general strike in Sudan has paralysed key activities forcing the cancellation of flights linking Khartoum to world destinations. Pictures of aviation staff protesting are circulating on social media on Tuesday as well as those of deserted terminal building. Protesters are pressing for the military to meet their key demand, that the head of the sovereign council be a civilian. The ruling military council wants to retain that role. Peter Mutharika will be sworn in as president of Malawi for a second term on Tuesday afternoon following his narrow win in last week's election. The Malawi Electoral Commission declared Mutharika the winner on Monday after an injunction barring the release of the results was lifted. High court registrar Agness Patemba told AFP the swearing-in ceremony would be conducted by Chief Justice Andrew Nyirenda at 2 pm (1200 GMT) in Blantyre's Kamuzu sports stadium. Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to continue his crackdown against corrupt officials, saying the slow pace of prosecution and punishment was frustrating him. In an interview broadcast on Monday evening, however, Mr Buhari said some progress had been made in recovering fixed assets and money including from Europe and America.Buhari, 76, is due to be sworn into office for his next four-year term on Wednesday. On Monday he signed a $29 billion budget into law. Human Rights Watch on Tuesday accused both Egyptian security forces and jihadists of committing "war crimes" in their confrontation in the restive North Sinai region. In a report, the group documents war crimes, warning their widespread and systematic nature could amount to crimes against humanity." The report is compiled from interviews with more than 50 residents of the Sinai Peninsula, in northeast Egypt, where a state of emergency has been in force since 2013. A Gambian military court on Monday sentenced seven soldiers to nine years in jail for plotting to overthrow President Adama Barrow, and handed a three-year prison term to another. The sentences relate to events in 2017 after the ouster of strongman Yahya Jammeh, who ruled the tiny West African country with an iron fist for 22 years. The court in Yundum, about 25 kilometres from the capital Banjul, acquitted four other soldiers. Seychelles President Danny Faure, 57, hasannounced that he would seek re-election in presidential polls in 2020.Faure announced the decision on a public address reported by the presidency. He came to power in 2016 as the ruling party reeled from defeat in legislative elections. The statement said a referendum would be held before the election to decide whether citizens living abroad could vote. Zimbabwe's main opposition party has elected Nelson Chamisa, 41, unopposed to remain as leader at its first congress since the death of its founder, Morgan Tsvangirai, the party announced Monday. The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has been plagued by infighting since Tsvangirai's death and an election defeat to Zanu-PFs Emmerson Mnangagwa last year. Rivers worldwide are polluted with antibiotics that exceed environmental safety thresholds by up to 300 times, according to research unveiled at a conference Monday. Scientists found one or more common antibiotics in two-thirds of 711 samples taken from rivers in 72 countries, they told a meeting of environmental toxicologists in Helsinki. In dozens of locations, concentrations of the drugs - used to fight off bacterial infection in people and livestock - exceeded safety levels set by the AMR Industry Alliance, a grouping of more than 100 biotech and pharmaceutical companies.   Pipeline to run from Dar es Salaam to Zambia’s mining city of Ndola. Kampala had allocated $38.5m for the project, but the funds have been diverted.