1. Malawi votes in tight election Malawi polls opened on Tuesday after a closely-fought election campaign. President Peter Mutharika faces opposition from his own deputy Saulos Chilima and former Baptist preacher Lazarus Chakwera, who is the head of the main opposition Malawi Congress Party.  2. Semenya to contest 3000 metres at Prefontaine Classic South African athlete Caster Semenya will compete in the 3,000 metres at the Diamond League’s Prefontaine Classic in Stanford, California on June 30, 2019, a distance she can race without reducing her testosterone levels. She has been adamant that she will not take medication to lower her testosterone levels to comply with new International Associations of Athletics (IAAF) rules.  3. Somalia minister, lawmakers denied entry into Kenya Three senior Somalia government officials were refused entry at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi for lacking visas. The three were holding diplomatic passports. But they say Kenya immigration officials at JKIA told them they should have obtained visas at the Kenyan embassy in Mogadishu.  4. US underestimates Huawei, founder says Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei on Tuesday shrugged off US attempts to block his company's global ambitions, saying the United States underestimates the telecom giant's strength.  5. Sudan talks end with no accord on ruling body Sudanese army rulers and protesters failed Tuesday to reach an agreement yet again on the make-up of a new ruling body as negotiations also became deadlocked over who should lead it – a civilian or soldier. Neither side said when talks would resume.  6. South Sudan to close 39 embassies The South Sudan government plans to close at least 39 overseas embassies due to financial constraints.  7. Angola to re-bury body of rebel chief Jonas Savimbi The exhumed body of Angolan rebel chief Jonas Savimbi, who was killed in 2002, will be reburied in his hometown next month. He fought Angola's socialist government in a 27-year civil war, and his death paved the way for a peace deal.  8. Egypt to free ex-diplomat critical of Sisi's rule: lawyer Egyptian authorities have ordered the release of former diplomat Masom Marzok who was detained in August 2018 after proposing a referendum on the regime of President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.  9. Football fans pay tribute to Ghana's Asamoah Gyan Many people are paying tribute to Ghana captain Asamoah Gyan on Twitter, following his announcement that he is retiring from international football.  10. Nigeria journalists oppose new rules for covering Parliament Journalists in Nigeria are opposing new rules that restrict the accreditation of reporters covering Parliament. The rules are set to come into effect next month.  11. Sylvestre Ilunga Ilukamba appointed Congo prime minister Sylvestre Ilunga Ilukamba, a career politician and ally of former President Joseph Kabila, was appointed as Democratic Republic of Congo’s prime minister on Monday, the government said in a statement.   It has debts with a range of creditors, including local commercial banks. He is an ally of former President Joseph Kabila.