Regional upscale restaurant 360 Degrees Artisan Pizza has only recently entered Rwanda’s food scene. The restaurant followed in the footsteps of its sister company, Java House, which opened its doors to Kigali in 2017. 360 Degrees is located on the first floor of Kigali Heights, at the Kimihurura roundabout next to the Radisson Blu Hotel. The restaurant’s interior is warm and welcoming, with contemporary elegance achieved through the use of colours like burnt sienna and matte green. My friend and I arrived early one Saturday morning and the attendant was quick to welcome us. Unfortunately, we were half an hour early for weekend brunch that starts at 11am on Saturdays. We ordered drinks while waiting. The wait provided us the opportunity to peruse the menu closely. So when the attendant came around we had our orders ready. I was ravenous so I settled for the 360 Breakfast, which includes two eggs with sourdough toast, shoestring chips with a choice of either bacon or house-made sausages. I also had the breakfast pizza, which has mozzarella, bacon, roast potato, thyme and egg. It took about 20 minutes for our food to arrive, but it was well worth the wait. The breakfast pizza had a thin crust with a blistered outer edge. It was chewy and crispy, and I could taste the bacon, eggs and cheese. The breakfast was wholesome with thinly sliced, soft and slightly crunchy chips, bronzed toast, a well-done omelette and medium fried bacon. I also tried the Memphis chicken pizza, which had been highly recommended. It is the best pizza on their menu by far. It was made with their house barbecue sauce, mozzarella, roasted chicken breast, red onion and fresh cilantro. 360 Degrees also serves other Italian dishes, various salads, starters, carne, pasta and desserts to complement their signature and classic pizzas. They have vegetarian options. Although their pizzas are relatively expensive, they are well worth the price. Meal prices range from Rwf3,600 ($4) to Rwf13,000 ($14.3).   The talks had been suspended for 72 hours as the security in the capital had deteriorated. Poor rains since last October have also taken a heavy toll of herders and their livestock.