Egypt has agreed to meet Ethiopia and Sudan over a disputed Nile dam as the Nobel-winning Ethiopian premier Abiy Ahmedtoughened his tone saying his country could not be stopped from building the gigantic project. Fresh tensions have flared between Cairo and Addis Ababa after the latest rounds of talks this month on Ethiopia's soon-to-finished dam on the Blue Nile failed to reach an agreement. The Egyptian foreign ministry said it had accepted an invitation bringing the foreign ministers from the three countries to Washington to try to break the stalemate terming Abiy's comments unacceptable. Sudan is hopeful of being removed from its classification by the United States as a state sponsor of terrorism by the end of the year after a formal and extensive review. Finance Minister Ibrahim Elbadawi said after meeting with US officials in Washington that the delisting would take place before the end of the year, 'hopefully.' The designation means potential investors in Sudan risk legal backlash in the United States and that the country cannot negotiate financial support, including debt relief, with commercial and concessional lenders. Gambia's Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Committee got a rare moment of inspiration when a former president Yahya Jammeh aide reconciled with a former officer he had arrested falsely over the 1994 military coup. Captain Edward Singhateh had owned up on Monday to framing charges against Sana Sabally who was subsequently tortured and spent nine years in prison, where another indictee Sadibou Hydara died. Singhateh and Sabally publicly buried the hatchet on Wednesday, shaking hands and embracing in front of television cameras with Sabally saying "either way we were victims, either way we were oppressors." A Tanzanian court has upheld a law banning the marriage of girls under the age of 18 after the state had appealed against a 2016 High Court finding. The court had ruled that laws allowing girls as young as 15 to be married with the permission of their parents, or even 14 with the permission of a court, were unconstitutional and discriminatory. The Court of Appeal rejected the appeal for lacking a foundation as the legal age for men to marry is 18; by which time government data shows two in every five girls are already married. Results of the general election held in Botswana on Wednesday are expected from Thursday evening with President Mokgweetsi Masisi saying he would retreat into opposition if the ruling party loses. Vote counting was delayed on Wednesday by long queues of people waiting to cast their ballots after the 1700 GMT deadline for the 2,200 polling stations to close. A pre-poll survey carried by Afrobarometer showed the ruling Botswana Democratic Party with around 44 per cent but a winner is declared once a party secures 29 parliamentary seats. The results of Mozambique's October 15 general elections will be announced on October 30 after the National Electoral Commission (CNE) said Wednesday it was processing provincial returns. Partial tallies, however, show President Filipe Nyusi and his Frelimo party dominating parliament, the legislative assemblies and all 10 provinces where the opposition was expected to make inroads. The main opposition Renamo wants the election annulled over violence, intimidation, ballot stuffing, harassment of poll observers and ghost voters. President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that Russia would aim to double trade with Africa over the next five years, at the opening of a summit aimed at reviving Moscow's ties with the continent. Moscow already exports to Africa $25 billion worth of food and $15 billion of arms and is looking to sell nuclear technology, mineral extraction and facial recognition solutions to Africa. "In the next four to five years I think we should be able to double this trade, at least," he told African leaders during the first Russia Africa Summit at the Black Sea resort of Sochi.   Former EABL finance director Peter Ndegwa appointed Safaricom's new CEO. Prosecutor say investigations are not complete.