Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari will on Wednesday depart for South Africa on a three day state visit following an invitation by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ties between Africa's two biggest economies soured after a wave of xenophobic attacks in South African cities last month, targeting Nigerians and other nationalities. President Buhari's aide said he expected to find common grounds for building harmonious relations between Nigerians and their hosts. Outrage back home over the attacks saw South African businesses in Nigeria close shop amid threats of looting and hundreds of Nigerians have since left South Africa. The United States has blocked rough diamond imports from Zimbabwe’s Marange fields following concerns that they were produced with forced labour. According to a notice, US Customs and Border Protection’s ban targeted products from Zimbabwe, China and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Zimbabwe government Spokesman Nick Manwana, however, said the US had been misled because the country's laws prohibited compulsory labour. Tunisia presidential candidate Nabil Karoui suffered another setback in his quest for freedom when the Court of Appeal rejected his fresh bid for release from jail. With two weeks to the October 13 elections Mr Karoui is campaigning through his Nessma television with his wife Salwa Smaoui doing the grassroot outreach. Mr Karoui, 56, was arrested 10 days before the start of campaigns, his assets frozen and travel banned raising fears of politicisation of his money-laundering and tax evasion case. Key institutions including the electoral body ISIE, his rival Kais Saied and international observers have called for his release to give the vote credibility.. He scored 15.6 percent of the vote in the first round on September 15 which was won by Mr Saied with 18.4 per cent. Malawi police fired tear gas at thousands of demonstrators in the capital Lilongwe on Tuesday in the latest wave of protests over the disputed May presidential election. The demonstrators have for five months been demanding the resignation of the electoral commission chairwoman Jane Ansah who they accuse of rigging the vote in favour of President Peter Mutharika. Protests leaders said the police were not provoked and one person was hospitalised with a suspected bullet injury. The police declined comment while the military said it was unaware of the incident. Malian troops, backed by air support, launched an offensive against jihadists who raided a military camp in the country's fragile central region at dawn on Monday. G5 Sahel, a five-nation joint taskforce created in 2014 to try to tackle jihadist violence in the region said the assailants were suspected to be members of Ansarul Islam. At least 25 Malian soldiers were killed and about 60 are missing while 15 jihadists were killed in the fighting, the government said on Wednesday. Britain has launched an investigation into the auditors who signed off on accounts for the now-bankrupt holiday giant Thomas Cook, as the company's Belgian division finally collapsed. The Financial Reporting Council said in a statement on Tuesday that it will examine whether accountancy firm EY - which replaced PwC as Thomas Cook's auditors in 2017 - acted properly in scrutinising its books. A parliamentary business committee launched its own inquiry on Thursday last week into the travel company's management conduct, pay, accounting and auditors, and regulation. The collapse of Thomas Cook has left Britain's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) regulator flying back 150,000 UK nationals who were left stranded abroad at a cost of $124 million.   Suspected RNC operatives appear before a military tribunal in Nyarugenge District. It is a violation of the Anti-Doping Rules.