Mozambique's largest opposition party Renamo on Wednesday lodged court papers calling for the October 15 election results to be annulled due to "massive electoral fraud". Renamo lost the election to the long-ruling Frelimo party, securing under 22 percent of the vote, as President Filipe Nyusi won a fresh five-year term Renamo's national spokesman Venancio Mondlane said the party had documented evidence of "all the misconduct that took place during the elections. The Constitutional Court will rule on the petition in December although lower courts have so far convicted 158 people over electoral misconduct, with trials of 140 others pending. Facebook said Wednesday it took down accounts linked to a Russian ally of President Vladimir Putin seeking to spread disinformation on the social network in eight African countries. The operations hiding behind fake identities were linked to Yevgeny Prigozhin, who has been indicted in the United States in connection with an influence campaign targeting the 2016 US elections. Madagascar, Central African Republic, Mozambique, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Sudan and Libya were targeted by the ploy, Facebook said in a statement. Cameroon will spend 200 million CFA Francs ($339,052) to support families affected by the landslide in Bafoussam in the highlands of western Cameroon. President Paul Biya said in a tweet the disbursement would "support the affected families and the resettlement of the population. The death toll in the Monday night ground shift caused by torrential rains reached 43 on Wednesday and a number of people are still missing. Nigeria’s Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal against President Muhammadu Buhari's reelection on February 23, 2019, saying his challenger Alhaji Atiku Abubakar failed to present compelling evidence. The court upheld the finding of an election tribunal that Buhari was validly elected, unanimously saying the petitioners failed to proof alleged discrepancies in his academic qualifications. “We have examined all the briefs and exhibits for over two weeks and we have agreed that there is no merit in this appeal," Chief Justice Tanko Mohammad said. South African police on Wednesday arrested around 100 foreign nationals occupying an office building in Cape Town as part of a sit-in protest against xenophobia, later releasing many of them. Hundreds of asylum-seekers have been camping at UN refugee agency (UNHCR) offices in South Africa's capital Pretoria and the coastal city of Cape Town since October 8. The foreign nationals were detained after clashes broke out when the protesters refused to be evicted from the Waldorf Arcade, a 12-storey office block in Cape Town's central business district. Relatives of Sudan's former regime officials detained since the ouster of Omar al-Bashir demonstrated Wednesday, seeking their release. Bashir, who is on trial on corruption charges, was ousted by the army in April, spurred on by a nationwide protest movement against his iron-fisted rule of three decades. Several top officials of Bashir's regime including his aides Ahmed Harun and Ali Osman Taha have been detained, but so far he is the only one on trial. A Moroccan anti-terrorist court on Wednesday confirmed death sentences against three men convicted of beheading two Scandinavian tourists last December. The court also enhanced the penalty on a fourth man from life imprisonment to death for the murder of the two women, killed while hiking in the High Atlas mountains. The death penalty remains legal in Morocco but there have been no executions there since 1993 because of a moratorium and capital punishment remains a divisive political debate. South Africa's finance minister Tito Mboweni on Wednesday warned massive bailouts for state corporations would burden the country with unprecedented levels of debt. In a speech to Parliament Mboweni said the country was living beyond its means and debt service costs would exceed spending on health and economic development in three years. South Africa's national debt is more than 3.0 trillion rand ($200 billion) and is projected at 4.5 trillion rand ($300 billion) by 2022; more than 71.3 per cent of GDP against a sustainability ratio of 74 per cent. The Malaysian financier at the heart of the massive 1MDB graft scandal will forfeit assets worth $700 million including a Beverly Hills hotel and a private jet in a settlement with the US Justice Department. Jho Low will relinquish the assets under the largest ever US civil forfeiture, intended to recover cash allegedly stolen in the 1MDB scandal which helped topple Malaysia's corruption-plagued former regime. Low was an informal adviser to 1Malaysia Development Berhad - the country's sovereign fund - which was looted between 2009 and 2014 in a fraud allegedly involving disgraced Malaysian ex-premier Najib Razak and his cronies. Tens of millions of dollars in stolen money was used by Najib's stepson, an aspiring film producer, to fund the Hollywood film "The Wolf of Wall Street," starring Leonardo DiCaprio.   With poor sanitation, there are fears of waterborne diseases breaking out. US lawmakers vote for the first time to advance the impeachment process targeting the US