Mozambique’s opposition has called for a re-run of the general election alleging intimidation, violence and vote rigging, claims the ruling party denies. President Filipe Nyusi secured another five-year term after a landslide win in the general election. He won 73 per cent of the presidential vote. Although the 17-member elections body approved the results by a vote of nine to eight, the opposition Renamo party and independent observers have described the electoral process as flawed. Algerian judges and prosecutors began an open-ended strike Sunday to demand the independence of the judiciary after a massive reshuffle that has affected thousands, the union of magistrates said. The move comes as the country remains wracked by anti-government protests against a planned December presidential election that must be overseen by judges. Earlier this month the justice ministry carried out an unprecedented reshuffle of the judiciary in a move that affected 3,000 judges and prosecutors, out of around 6,000. Gunmen killed a leading figure of a Senegalese separatist movement on Sunday while he was attending the enthronement ceremony of a traditional king, a military spokesman said. Abdou Elinkine Diatta, spokesman of the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance (MFDC), when unknown assailants on a motorcycle gunned him dead. Diatta was the spokeman of a fragmented separatist movement that has since 1982 demanded the Casamence region be governed independently but President Macky Sall has made achieving peace there a top priority. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) begins a fifth Extended Credit Facility review mission in Cameroon on Monday. The mission that ends on November 8 just comes ahead of the government tabling in Parliament the state budget for 2020 later in the month. In May the IMF approved disbursement of $76.2 million following the fourth review, bringing to about $514.5 million under the 2017 $667 million facility. The money is expected to help the Central African country achieve fiscal sustainability and invest in sustainable private sector-driven growth. EU member states on Monday agreed to postpone Britain's divorce from the bloc for up to three months until January 31 2020, with possible off-ramps beforehand. The President of the European Council Donald Tusk said in a tweet, however, that the withdrawal could come earlier if an agreement is reached. "The EU27 has agreed that it will accept the UK's request for a Brexit flextension until 31 January 2020," the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, tweeted.   A Silverstone Air plane from Lodwar forced to make an emergency landing. Cultism has recently become a buzzword in Kenya.