I like the story of Daniel in the Bible, not because he survived the lion’s den. But mainly because the King was tricked into passing a law that forced people to worship his idol for 30 days. And Daniel did not follow that law. The fact that Daniel was one of the King’s chief advisers, and the King was distraught to find that he had to be punished. The King could not change the law, he had to follow it, because a King who did not follow his own law would not be respected. How are we to respect the appointing authority when it chooses the dead over the living? The youth are upset so much so, that their complaints drowned the positive celebration of our heroes and heroines this past weekend on “Mashujaa day”. Many frustrated with the rampant corruption and lack of employment as they watch former politicians get rewarded with state jobs. The jokes doing rounds in social media this past week have been particularly scathing on the place of old people in government employment in Kenya. Jokes were shared of how one can’t wait to reach 70 to be considered for a government appointment. Or, 90 is the new 30. Many board chair appointments have been of individuals past retirement age, and great grandparents who should be enjoying their final years on earth. In its various forms, the joke has it that Kenya is a country for old people; a country where the old people are kept in plum employment by the government—contrary to the title to Cormac McCarthy’s classic “No Country for Old Men.” Nowhere was this more manifest than in the appointment to the National Employment Agency of a politician in her late 60s who lost her seat in the past election. The good lady saw nothing wrong with her new job. If anything, she was ready to report to the office and prove her mettle...but a group of young parliamentarians rushed to court and had her stopped from assuming the appointment. In a bizarre twist, the Kenya Film and Classification Board announced the appointment of a member to their board who was – wait for it - deceased!Is there a method to this madness? One wonders. Indeed, there are steps to be followed when it comes to appointments to state corporations. These steps are anchored in the constitution and demand that appointment be made in a manner so transparent, and merit-based that it is clear the individual met a certain set of criteria. We can firmly conclude that the recent appointment of a widow, a few hours after her long deceased husband was “appointed,” did not meet the steps required. We can also strongly speculate that no due diligence was carried out, if a man who is deceased can make it to the Gazette Notice of appointment! But the law is the law. The king who did not follow his own law would not be respected. Right? Like a sailor at sea, the types and directions of winds are important. They could be heading the same direction as you or against you. Thus, you would know when to turn, how and which sails to raise and others to lower. The winds are currently strong. The Punguza Mizigo initiative that was riding on having a referendum to reduce the number of representatives has been stopped dead in its tracks. As much as they say they had gathered one million signatures, it is difficult to visibly see the kind of support that they purport to have had. A million signatures, should equate to some visible support especially from the people. This is the right time to release the Building Bridges Initiative report, because the people are in a place of worry and discomfort. If the BBI addresses the issues that are pinching the people today, then they will connect with it and join the wave. It is not difficult to see when something is popularly supported by the masses. If the BBI does not connect with the people, it will be swallowed up, chewed and quickly spat out of the very mouths. This will be a test to prove, whether they really met with the people that they say they interacted with. Whether the public participation was genuine. How that narrative will be spun will be interesting to see. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is executive director of Siasa Place. Twitter: @NerimaW   Lobbies detail how Magufuli's administration has enforced his diktats using draconian laws. A Silverstone Air plane from Lodwar forced to make an emergency landing.