Mozambique opposition parties reject results Two opposition parties in Mozambique have rejected the outcome of the October 15 elections which provisionally give President Filipe Nyusi more than 70 per cent of the votes. The main opposition Renamo said after a meeting of its top organ it had endorsed the rejection of the results by its presidential candidate Ossufo Momande who garnered 24 per cent of the ballot. The position coming just days after Mozambique Democratic Movement (MDM) trashed the results over fraud and violence, plunges a peace agreement signed in August into deep uncertainty. Sudan peace negotiators to break for consultations Negotiators at the Sudan peace talks in Juba, South Sudan, are expected to break for three weeks on Tuesday, a day after they signed a political declaration to end hostilities. The break is meant to allow for intra-party talks as demanded by the Revolutionary Front, a grouping of Darfur based rebels, and to lay the basis for other rebel groups to join in the talks. The parties agreed that the mediation of South Sudan President Salva Kiir be recognised by the African Union and that humanitarian agencies can deliver supplies to conflict areas including darfur, Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile regions. South Sudan’s three main donors – Norway, United Kingdom and the United States – are pressurizing President Salva Kiir and rival Riek Machar to form a transitional government as scheduled on November 12. In a statement on Monday, the group said prolonging the war would weaken the Revitalised Agreement and expose the population to further distress. The call came after Dr Machar told a UN Security Council delegation to Juba over the weekend that criticized the international community for wanting a transitional government formed before key security and political safeguards were in place. The right-hand man of Gambia's former president Yahya Jammeh on Monday admitted being "partially responsible" for the arrest, torture and execution of 11 soldiers accused of a coup plot. Saying he was "partially responsible for putting Jammeh there," British-born former army captain Edward Singhateh told the country's Truth, Reconciliation and Reparations Commission (TRRC) that he was remorseful for his role Jammeh had come to power in a bloodless coup in July 1994 and was controversially re-elected until December 2016 when he lost to Adama Barrow; resisted handing over power before being his forced exile in Equatorial Guinea Seven Cameroonian soldiers accused of killing two women and their children in an alleged summary execution that was caught on video pleaded not guilty at a military tribunal on Monday. The six soldiers and a captain have been charged with joint participation in murder, breach of regulations and conspiracy despite the Cameroon government initially dismissing the July 2018 video as fake news. The video that went viral on social networks showed men in military uniform summarily executing two women, blindfolded and on their knees, along with a little girl and a baby one of the mothers was carrying on her back.   KCB, Equity, Diamond Trust, Co-Op bank take pole position with positive indices. The ban affects all plastic carry bags and other single-use plastic items