Guinea Bissau President José Mário Vaz has called a meeting of Parliamentary parties and the state council to "analyse the country's situation" following weeks of protests over elections scheduled for November 24, 2019. The protests were called by opposition parties who want the date pushed back to allow for thorough scrutiny of the electoral register amid claims that the government had introduced 25,000 new names into the role. On Monday, President Vaz dismissed the government led by Prime Minister Aristides Gomes saying the country was in a political crisis that was hindering the functioning of key institutions. Nine people were confirmed dead and 50 were still missing after a landslide in west Cameroon on Monday following two days of heavy rain. West Regional governor Awa Fonka Augustine said by phone that 11 houses were swept by the landslide and rescue efforts were ongoing since 10 pm on Monday night. He said the Cameroon government had disbursed the sum of FCFA 25 million ($42,300) in support of the victims. Special envoys of the eastern Africa development and security organisation IGAD have asked the international community to provide material and political support to the tottering South Sudan peace process. The end game of the initiative led by IGAD - the formation of a transitional government between President Salva Kiir and rival Riek Machar on November 12 - appears elusive with the latter giving conditions for participation. At their meeting in Djibouti the envoys asked the parties to close ranks on pending issues without directly commenting on Dr Machar's request for a two-month extension before the new government is formed. Guinean authorities have over the past week detained nearly a thousand young people, including many foreign nationals who were branded "inflitrators". The reasons for the arrests were not clear as some security sources accused them of making easy money in Guinea while others said they had not entered the country with peaceful intentions. The arrests come amid violent protests against President Alpha Conde's quest for a third term and as Conakry cracks down on QNet, a Hong Kong based direct sales scheme. Suspected jihadists have freed at least five teachers kidnapped last week at their school in central Mali for using French in the classroom. The government said their release showed goodwill after the attackers ransacked the school in Korientze, some 150 kilometres (95 miles) north of the regional capital Mopti, on Friday. More than 900 schools have closed in the former French colony, mostly in the central regions that since 2012 have witnessed insurrections by separatists, Salafists and jihadists, interlaced with inter-ethnic violence. Scientists said Monday they had pinpointed the "ancestral homeland" of all humans alive today in a desert plain in northern Botswana that teemed with life 200,000 years ago, renewing controversy on the origins of man. The study in the journal Nature used DNA analysis, linguistic and geographic distribution data, and climate change modelling to determine that modern man emerged in the region, south of the Zambezi River, before migrating. Critics pointed out that no one measure was adequate to exactly pinpoint where modern man came from given previous archaeological works that showed man descended from West Africa and East Africa. DR Congo military prosecutors on Monday requested life imprisonment for a warlord accused of leading the mass rape of hundreds of people, including children, in the south Kivu region. Frederic Masudi Alimasi, known as Kokodikoko, the leader of the Raia Mutomboki militia, has been on trial since mid-September with two other men who were acquitted for lack of evidence. The prosecutor said Kokodikoko "committed crimes against humanity including rape, torture, murder, imprisonment and sexual slavery," against more than 300 victims in the Mwenga and Shabunda territories between February and April last year. The authorities in South Africa's largest city, Johannesburg, have refused to pay a ransom of four Bitcoin tokens, valued at approximately R500, 000 or $34,000 to hackers who breached its network last week. The City of Johannesburg said on Monday that it was confident it would be able to restore its systems - including billing systems and call centres that were affected - to full functionality. "The City will not concede to their demands for Bitcoins," Funzela Ngobeni, a member of the Johannesburg mayoral committee in charge of finance, said adding that billing, property valuation, land information, eHealth and libraries services were already up." Undaunted by his latest setback in pushing a Brexit deal through Parliament, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is working on a legislation for a poll on December 12. The move follows the defeat on Monday of his attempt to force an early election after the European Union agreed to postpone Brexit for up to three months. Johnson sought to call an election for December 12 but could not muster the two-thirds majority required in the house of commons. Legislating for the poll would require a simple majority and possible usher in a new parliament that can get the three-year Brexit rollercoaster done.   Data center will be ready by end of the year The highway is an alternative between the port of Mombasa and Bujumbura.