France has facilitated talks between Sudan Prime minister Abdalla Hamdok and a senior Darfur rebel leader, Abdulwahid Nur, in an "essential step' towards reconciliation in the country. Hamdok said they discussed the roots and possible solutions to the Sudan crisis adding: "we are going to lay the first stones for this edifice of peace." Nur, an exile in France, leads the Sudanese Liberation Army (SLA/AW), which does not recognise Hamdok's government, which is tasked with returning Sudan to a democratic rule by 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron announced a $16.3 million aid package and a planned donor conference for Sudan after the talks. Absence of key rebel and political leaders have dimmed hopes of a breakthrough in a national dialogue aimed at ending a separatist conflict in Cameroon's anglophone provinces that has killed more than 3,000 people. The dialogue entered a second day on Tuesday with Prime Minister Joseph Dion Ngute who is leading the negotiations downplaying the impact of the abstentations "preoccupations" between the opposing sides were "not unsolvable. The International Crisis Group, a peace and security monitor, however, said exclusion of separatists and anglophone leaders, however, risked "empowering hardliners." The International Criminal Court has confirmed war crimes and crimes against humanity charges against a Malian jihadist accused of demolishing Timbuktu's fabled shrines and unleashing a reign of terror. Al Hassan Ag Abdoul Aziz Ag Mohamed Ag Mahmoud, 40, was also accused of being responsible for rapes and sexual slavery after fundamentalists exploited a Tuareg uprising in 2012 to take over cities in Mali's volatile north. Al Hassan is the second Islamist extremist to face trial at the ICC for the destruction of the Timbuktu shrines, following a 2016 landmark ruling at the world's only permanent war crimes court which handed a nine-year prison term. Zimbabwe's central bank on Monday banned cash transactions using the mobile money service in its latest attempt to tackle a chronic cash shortage and inflation. Commercial banks have been rationing cash withdrawals to a maximum daily limit of $10 per customer, forcing people to turn to electronic financial transactions. When cash is required for basics like bus fare and groceries people turned to mobile money service operators who charge commissions of about 40 per cent per transaction. Moroccan journalist Hajar Raissouni was sentenced in a Rabat court Monday to one year in jail for having had an "illegal abortion" and sexual relations outside marriage. Her gynaecologist was given two years and her Sudanese fiance one year in prison, while an anaesthetist was handed a one-year suspended sentence and a medical assistant eight months, also suspended. Lawyers for 28-year-old Raissouni had called for her acquittal during the trial, denying she had had an abortion. and said they would appeal the decision. Nigeria's tech industry on Monday slammed security agencies for the "illegal arrests" of web developers on accusations of being internet fraudsters. The outrage erupted over the weekend after Lagos-based software engineer Toni Astor said he was arrested, beaten and extorted for money by a notorious police unit. Astor said officers from the discredited Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) assaulted him after they found him with a laptop and made him withdraw money from his accounts to pay them. Nigeria's economic capital Lagos is conflicted as a key tech hub for African developers and a centre for cybercrime and fraud, perpetrated by organised gangs known locally as "Yahoo Yahoo boys". For a country notorious for responding to deadlines at the last minute, the swap from old to new Sh1000 ($10) bank notes passed quietly on Monday with no queues in banks or forex bureaus. The Central Bank had given Kenyans four months to swap the notes in line with constitutional requirements as well as a secondary goal to weed out ill-gotten money from circulation. Of the 217 million notes targeted, Central Bank reported, 70 per cent had been returned to the banking system on the eve of the September 30 deadline, leaving notes with a face value of $650 million outstanding. The Central Bank will update on the success of the demonetisation which was hoped to also curb corruption and nab tax cheats on Wednesday.   Villages in Lamu have been hard-hit by the Kenyan govt's war with Al-Shabaab. A court postponed a hearing into the journalist's case for a sixth time.