Three districts in Cabo Delgado’s province districts of Macomia, Mocímboa da Praia and Medumbe will not participate in Mozambique elections on Tuesday because of violence. The country's National Electoral Commission (CNE) said 5, 400 voters would be affected in the mineral rich enclaves, 1,600 kilometres north of of the capital Maputo. The province borders Tanzania and has a population of nearly two million, many believed to be sympathisers of Renamo, the opposition challenging Frelimo's hold on power since 1974. Forces that were previously loyal to the self-declared republic of Somaliland on Sunday defected to Puntland, a semi-autonomous authority in Northeastern Somalia. Puntland TV, the authority's mouthpiece, said the 93rd brigade of the Somaliland force that had been stationed at Eel-buh in Sanag region had joined Darvish, the armed forces of Puntland. Puntland is a member of the federal Republic of Somalia while Somaliland declared independence from the rest of Somalia in May 1991 but is not internationally recognised. Sudan and South Sudan on Sunday resumed meetings aimed at settling rows over where their common border passes. The 11th meeting was to be held in April but was pushed because of protests that led to the ouster of President Omar al-Bashir and the creation of a transition government in August. Al-Amin Mohamed Banga, the co-chair of the commission, said the talks were focusing on securing the borders and finding a solution without external intervention. Sudanese Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok will attend peace talks in the South Sudan capital Monday with rebel leaders from several Sudanese states. Ateny Wek Ateny, spokesman for South Sudan's President Salva Kiir, said today's meeting would mark the launch of the peace talks. Hamdok, who was only appointed in August in a deal between the army and the opposition, will meet rebel leaders from the Sudanese states of Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile. Also attending will be Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who last week won the Nobel Peace Prize, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta. Conservative academic Kais Saied, a political outsider, was headed for a landslide victory Sunday in Tunisia's presidential runoff. Exit polls showed Saied garnering more than 70 per cent of the vote against businessman Nabil Karoui, who three pollsters showed about 40 points behind. Emrhold exit poll showed Saied at 72.5 per cent while Sigma showed him at 76.9 per cent, prompting celebrations as voters expected him to take drastic action on corruption. Botswana's influential former president Ian Khama on Sunday threw his weight behind the opposition in a bid to oust his handpicked successor in the country's upcoming elections. Earlier this year Khama dramatically defected from the Botswana Democratic Party (BDP), which has ruled the southern African country since it gained independence from Britain in 1966. His departure and condemnation of President Mokgweetsi Masisi has thrown the ruling party into an internal crisis ahead of a general election on October 23. Kenya's Brigid Kosgei shattered Paula Radcliffe's 16-year-old world record Sunday, winning the Chicago Marathon in two hours, 14 minutes and four seconds. Kosgei broke the mark of 2:15:25 set by Radcliffe in the London Marathon on April 13, 2003 as she defended her title. Lawrence Cherono made it a Kenyan double with victory in the men's race, as Mo Farah finished a distant eighth amid controversy surrounding his disgraced coach Alberto Salazar.   Unlike the Nobels in Chemistry, Literature, Medicine, Peace and Physics, the economics prize is Bretton Woods institutions say settlement could unlock debt relief